Hey guys, Ian and Anna here from the other side vlog. A lot of you already knew that we were just in Costa Rica for about 25 days. And next week we're coming out with our top 10 Costa Rica video. Before we did that, and shared all the amazing things this country has to offer, we wanted to talk to you about some warnings. Most countries we go to always have some sort of scam going on, whether that's big or small. But if you don't catch it really early on, it will add up. It adds up. So we're here to warn you, get you ready, and hopefully tell the locals not to do this. The more they get taught that, the less they'll do it. The lot of the scams you run into across countries are very similar. Where it'll be like a taxi driver just charging you more. You know, we're used to that stuff. This one was very interesting though, and we didn't realize it until about 10 days into our trip. So who knows how many times this actually happened to us. But basically in Costa Rica, and I've also heard, because I mentioned this on Instagram, that this is common in a lot of Central American countries. So I'm not like singling out Costa Rica, but warning you, tourists. Basically, when you go to order and you get your bill, double check your bill at the end. That's really all there is to it, because they're going to add on a lot of items. Ian's birthday, he had like two drinks and I had one, and they charged us for eight. So they more than doubled it, and that was a lot for drinks on his birthday. On my birthday, who does that? I think they thought we were like getting tipsy and we wouldn't notice, but Ian went in. And it's so funny, because every single time this has happened, which by the way, once we realized it was a thing, it happened to us every single day at least once at some dinner or lunch place. And the craziest part was this wasn't just in one town. We were all over the west coast of Costa Rica, and it happened everywhere. Once we were even with a local, and they tried to pull out on us, and I was like, are you... Is anyone seeing this? Like, is this not... Yeah, it happened to us in Uvita, Santa Teresa, Tambor, La Fortuna, La Fortuna, all over Costa Rica. And so it's so funny, because every single time we went to confront the people, hey, you charged me an extra, they knew right away. Like, it wasn't like, oh, I'm so, oh, I must check. They just, they knew that we caught them. I'm ranting, I'm just the ****. Because I appreciate honesty, like, if you're a server, and you treat me well, I'm gonna treat you well. I'll give you a good tip. But if you try to scam me, why would I like you after that? I don't know. You're not getting the tip. Just so you guys know, we are dead tired, because we just did a two-day trip to get to Cairo, Egypt. You guys guessed it in our community tab earlier on. Right behind us is an amazing view of the pyramids, the great pyramids at Giza. The second one isn't really a scam, but a lot of people like to call it a scam. It's the car rental dilemma in Costa Rica. And this is really filtered towards high season, which most things are because high season is when prices are going to be completely jacked up. Long story short is in Costa Rica. Car rentals are very expensive. So if you see anything online, and it's like, oh, this deal, come in, get it, and you book your car. It's just false advertising, because when you get to Costa Rica, basically they tag on taxes and fees that are mandatory. Not only that, it's a mandatory insurance policy from the government that you have to implement on all car sales, rental car sales throughout the country. So every car rental car company has to do it, and it's a lot of money. It's like $300 to $400 on top of your price. Which again, it's one of those things. Just tell me how much I'm going to pay. And I'll pay for it, but don't catch me off guard because it just throws off your whole trip. This did not happen to us because we booked through Enterprise, and I say this in our top 10 video, but I'll say one more time, and I'm done sharing this, so they probably shouldn't be. But basically I have a friend that gave me one of her corporate codes for a discount on Enterprise. All those companies have corporate codes, so that is a huge hack. We got half off our price. We spent $1,400 for 16 days. It's a lot of money. Just a little less than our rent. One last thing about Costa Rica is the only national park that made us feel overwhelmed or uncomfortable. It was Maniwon, Tonyo National Park, and K-Post. Right at the entrance, it's not even at the entrance. It's a mile away from the entrance. They have these fake guards, they're locals with fake vass, fake badges, and they're trying to make you pull into their own parking lots. I got a video of them, and they got really mad and mad and mad and mad. Oh, what you have in your phone? I have it. I'll just pull over later. We got super mean to us. They ran in front of our car, stopped us, they tried to delete the video. Be sure not to stop. The biggest tip I have is to tell them that you are picking up a friend at the front gate of Maniwon, Tonyo. Right when we told them that, they're like, oh, go ahead, no worries. We just left the national park. So you already went to the park? Yeah, we already went. You literally have to walk so far. There's no shuttle. So we were seeing these poor people, I can't even, it's really far. Like at least a mile. Yeah, they, they, they the walk like 30 minutes before they even got the entrance of Maniwon, Tonyo. So they were sweating before they even got to the park. It's so hot. Right. Like it's not easy to walk in Costa Rica. I think it needs to be spread far and wide. So share this with anyone hiding in Costa Rica, because it's going to make you feel uncomfortable. But the closer you get to the entrance, there are actual parking people. You can't go into the park in park. So basically you want to go as close as you can. They really need to fix that so Torres can enjoy their time there, because you are paying to go into the park. I just think when there are moments like this no matter where you're traveling, it ruins your vibe. Yeah. And you have a bad mindset. So like we got into Maniwon, Tonyo, which is the number one visited national park in Costa Rica. We saw a sloth, many birds. I mean, you see so many cool things there. Yeah. But your mindset was just clouded because everyone's yelling at you. It leaves a bad taste to hear about, but let us tell you after spending three weeks, a little bit more than three weeks in Costa Rica. The locals there are some of the nicest we've ever met on the road. So you should not be nervous. Just look at your bills. Do not be scared of scam artists. Costa Rica is a little bit more expensive than we expected. But anyone from the US, you should come down here. There's flights that are cheap from every big airport. That's all. And I hope you don't think we're being like negative because I know we don't always go into this stuff. But we just felt like it's important. I shared it on my Instagram story and people loved it. So I was like, well, we got to share it with our YouTube people. Yeah. You guys are the real homies. So make sure to follow along on our journey. We're right now in Egypt and heading to Jordan. You can hear the call of prayers going on behind us. So it's a little loud. We have a playlist with all our Costa Rica videos. We hope you enjoy them. Follow us on Instagram. Subscribe. I don't know why you guys are subscribed now. It's super easy. Just put your Gmail in. It's free. Okay, love you. Bye.Costa Rica is one of the top tourist destinations for travelers. Nature, adventure, and recreation are the main protagonists when you walk through this gorgeous country. It's full of plentiful natural parks where you can discover more about the incredible Costa Rican biodiversity. You just need to get in touch with the unique local environment. Let's explore the 10 best places to visit in Costa Rica. But before we get started, subscribe to our channel and turn on notifications so you can keep up to date with all our latest destinations. 1. Coco's Island National Park This beautiful island became a national park thanks to the immense biodiversity at Holes. Declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, Coco's Island is an extraordinary place that every traveler should visit. Just wait to see the beautiful beaches. You may dive into the ocean and marvel at the different marine species that inhabit its waters. There are hammerhead sharks, dolphins, stingrays, and many others that are just swimming around in these crystal clear waters, making the experience exhilarating. The park has enormous forest areas which hide beautiful waterfalls and great trails. While you're here, you could admire a vast part of Costa Rica's wildlife. It has all the essential services, as well as a park ranger service and natural viewpoints. Camping is not allowed, but you can access it through tourist cruises with guided tours to the island. 2. Costa Rica's National Museum This place is the perfect point for those who love history. If you're one of them, you cannot miss this colossal museum. It was previously a military building known as the Belavista Fortress. Built in 1950, this museum became a repository for many exhibitions representing the rich history of Costa Rica. Here you will see the most impressive presentations extending from the pre-Columbian times to the present day. You will learn about the progress and development of the country's civilization and culture. The museum has educational activities throughout the year, so any time is a perfect moment to visit and enjoy its facilities. 3. Malpais Beach It's one of the country's major tourist attractions, and you can find it on the Nikoia Peninsula. You can enjoy many aquatic activities in its facilities, so don't miss this opportunity. Thanks to its huge waves, surfing became a popular sport here. You can practice other activities in Malpais, such as canoeing, sport fishing, diving, snorkeling, and kite surfing. Adventure is here waiting for you. It has all the essential services and economic or luxury accommodations, such as villas or bungalows. You can take a tour to explore and learn more about this beautiful beach. Say, are you feeling hungry? You'll find many restaurants that will show you why Costa Rica menus are among the most popular in the world. 4. Drake Bay It's a magical hidden place, which protects the legend of the famous pirate, Sir Francis Drake. Locals say that he used these lands to hide his treasures, and that it's the reason for its distinctive name. There's no easy access to this beach, but once you get there, you'll find the most peaceful of energies. Tourists can get into some activities like hiking, horseback riding, whale watching, or fishing. Several tours will take you to Corcovando Park, where you can explore and learn about the remarkable wildlife and flora. You also will find excellent hotel services that will cover all your traveling needs. 5. Puerto Viejo Puerto Viejo has incredible beaches, delicious food, and a tropical Caribbean vibe. For those looking to get away from corporate sorts and package tours, this Caribbean village is a countercultural breadth of fresh air. Beaches and social life are the town's main draw, but there are plenty of additional activities. Surfing, snorkeling, boat trips, wildlife sanctuaries, chocolate tours, and day trips to indigenous communities. You could easily spend a month here and not run out of things to do. 6. La fortuna city This site is also known as La fortuna de San Carlos, and is one of the most visited cities in the country. If you're an adventure enthusiast, you'll love this place. Here you can get a shot of adrenaline while repelling, rafting, hiking, and more. You can also go zip lining. Explore the canopy of the suspension bridge, and dive into the fantastic La fortuna waterfalls. Enjoy your stay in one of the resorts, like the Eco-Tarmales, relax, and rest in the area's famous thermal waters. 7. Manuel Antonio National Park The Manuel Antonio National Park is a hidden paradise full of incredible biodiversity, a large number of endangered animals, and vegetation are preserved here. You and your family may enjoy many activities within the park, such as kite surfing, scuba diving, kayaking, hiking, surfing, zip lining, and many others. You can interact with many birds and creatures from the moment you get in. You can explore the park through its main road known as the Lazy Trail. On this trail, you'll be delighted with the stunning views of the coast and enjoy the prolific tropical forest. 8. La Sabana Park This park, located within the city, dedicates its facilities to recreation, culture, and sports. With a vast extension, it's home to the National Stadium, post of multiple events. You'll notice a large expanse of trees, renewed some time ago. It also serves as a refuge for those who want to escape the hustle and bustle of the city. 9. Irasu, Volcano Costa Rica has significant volcanic activity. This national park is among the most recognized within the area because it's home to the great colossus, commonly known as the largest volcano in Costa Rica, Irasu. Believe it or not, the vast craters that make up this volcano attract many tourists that enjoy hiking this place. It's currently an active volcano, but its last volcanic activity was more than 20 years ago. As expected, vegetation is scarce around the volcano due to its activity over the years. However, you can admire some shrubs and plants that survive under these conditions. The highlight of the visit to this volcano is the crater Diego de la Haya, where many hope to climb. However, it's somewhat tricky, but it's worth it once you get to the top and contemplate the majesty of this volcano. 10. Santa Rosa National Park This world heritage site is considered one of the best destinations in Costa Rica. It preserves a beautiful tropical dry forest. This park is the Santa Rosa de la Cassona Historical Museum, known formally as the scene of some important independent spattles. If you have a thirst for history, this is the place. Historical documents and pieces of great cultural value, part of the historical legacy of Costa Rica, are treasured in this park. Thanks to its ample and protected tropical forest, it's home to different environments. You can find a large amount of biodiversity in Oak Forests, marshes, savannas, and mangroves. Visiting Costa Rica becomes a unique and incomparable experience that you will want to repeat many times, with its beaches, forests, and volcanoes. Costa Rica will always be that magical and memorable place that you will want to return to again and again. If you enjoyed this video, please give it a like and click subscribe. Thanks for watching! See you next time!Remake and Kim, we spent the last six weeks exploring Costa Rica and you are the share with you our favorite places in this paradise country. So here's our top 10 for Costa Rica. This is freaking magical! If you're looking for lush jungle tropical beaches and abandoned wildlife, there's no better place on Earth than Costa Rica. Let's start off with one of the country's crown jewels, Manuel Antonio National Park. If we had to name one place you can't miss, this would be it. Manuel Antonio has it all, beautiful rainforest and beaches but also the best wildlife in the country. In just a couple hours we spotted macaues, iguanas, dozens of monkeys, and enough sloths to make you question if you're actually in a forest or a slow-motion movie. If you want to you can splurge on a guide to help you spot even more animals, but if you bring your sense of adventure and a keen eye you will spot loads of wildlife on your own, just like we did. Now this one's important, Manuel Antonio is the most popular national park and tickets are limited so you have to book your tickets online at least a few days in advance. The best time to go is right when it opens at 7 a.m., which is what we did and we saw almost no other people until 9. Bonus tip, after you're down with the park, go for lunch at the nearby Emilio Escafe. The views are insane, the food's fantastic and whatever you do, do now skip their passion food pipe. Next up the Nalyaka waterfall. No trip to Costa Rica is complete without a waterfall and if you want to see one of the most dramatic and spectacular ones in the country you should visit this one, located one hour south of Manuel Antonio. The Nalyaka waterfall is 200 feet high, consists of two levels and is located a little deeper inside the rainforest so it's got that raw jungle vibe. Getting there is going to be an adventure in its own right. The waterfall is located two and a half miles from the nearest parking lot. You either do a one hour medium tough, medium sweaty hike through the jungle like we did or you can jump in the back of one of these cool looking 4x4 trucks. No matter how you decide to get there, you're going to love this one as Nalyaka is one of Costa Rica's most epic waterfalls. Now onto something that will shock you, number 3, the Tacos Bridge or as it's famously known. Crocodile Bridge. A leaning over the railings of this bridge, you'll spot groups of American crocodiles in the Tacos River below. These apex predators are up to 20 feet long, weigh up to 2,000 pounds and can easily take down a deer or wild boar. There's about 2,000 of them swimming around in this river, making this the largest population of crocodiles in the world and a fairly bad place to go for a swim. I'm very surprised they're not eating that good over there. If you're driving south along a Pacific coast of Costa Altsar, you'll be driving across this bridge. It makes for a great stop to stretch your legs. Car breakings are very common here though, so if you're green your own wheels, make sure to park over on the side of the bridge that has a souvenir stores and the restaurants because they're sparking attendance there. Continuing our Costa Rica Top 10, we're at number 4 Monte Verde Cloud Forest. If you want to inject your vacation with a bit of magic that can't be found anywhere else in the country, do not skip Monte Verde. Monte Verde is not jungle, it's cloud forest, so it's always cloudy with nearly 100% humidity, which creates this fairy tale-like scenery. You can visit the National Park and walk along the famous suspension bridges high up in the forest canopy or get even higher and soar over the canopy on a zip line. If you're going zip lining, we recommend 100% of Indura. They're two hour tour costs only 56 dollars and includes the longest zip line in Latin America. And if you're brave enough, you can do a 150 foot free fall. Despite what it sounds like, we felt perfectly safe the entire time. Bonus tip, definitely also check out the Collibri Cafe right next to the National Park entrance. The Monte Verde Cloud Forest is one of the 30 different species of hummingbirds and the Collibri Cafe has a sugar water feeders hanging around their patio at these little guys' block two. Having a coffee surrounded by dozens of beautiful hummingbirds is an experience you won't forget, especially when paired with one of their warm cinnamon buns. But now, let's get our head out of the clouds and back into the sunshine. Number 5, Plyah Heradura Costa Rica has plenty of beautiful beaches and you can't really go wrong with any of them, but Plyah Heradura located just north of the town of Jaco is our favorite on the Pacific coast. It's a great beach for swimming, soft sand, it's inside a small way with beautiful blue water and rolling hills in the background. This beach is a favorite among the locals and if you come here during the weekend, you can experience a typical Costa Rican tradition, the big family outing. Local drive for hours to bring their entire family here on the weekends. They're really love to party like a brother, dance and everything, they're having barbecues, they're playing lab music. So not only do we get to enjoy these incredible views, but we also made some new friends as well. Both the humankind and the feathery kind, as there are at least five or six Scarlet McCaws living on this beach. Number six, the San Jose Central Market. Now, if you're coming to Costa Rica, you're probably flying into the capital San Jose. It's mostly just a big city and nothing special, but there is one place we really recommend. If you love food, go sample some of the best traditional Costa Rican food that you'll ever have at the Central Market or Mercado Central. This market is packed with dozens of so-called sodas. No, not the beverages. They're local restaurants that serve typical and affordable dishes. Kind of Costa Rica's version of a diner, you'll find classics here like Gaiopinto, aka the famous rice and beans, loaded meat and panadas, and crazy snacks like a bag of Doritos filled with ceviche. Yes, I actually said that. A bag of corn chips topped with raw fish and sauce. I should be good. It's very surprising. Number seven, La Fortuna and Arinau. La Fortuna is a small town up in the central mountains of Costa Rica and one of the most popular destinations in the country because it's a very action-pack. Not only is La Fortuna the gateway to the 5,300-foot Arinau volcano, which originally put this town on the map, it is also famous for the towering La Fortuna waterfall and its Costa Rica's adventure hub. There's also much more relaxed options like hot springs, coffee tours, and it's a pretty fantastic wildlife. So no matter what you're interested in, you can find it here. Like in most of Costa Rica, the activities around Arinau and La Fortuna are very outdoorsy, but the weather in the mountains can be fickle at times. When we were there, we had bad luck, as it rained non-stop for days. So we didn't get to do too many activities. To avoid that precise situation, we recommend keeping your schedule flexible if you can, monitoring the and not booking your activities too far ahead. Keep in mind that thinking it very crowded and very expensive in Costa Rica, especially once you start doing guided tours, is very different from the rest of Central America. If you want to have lots of adventures and spot cool wildlife, but you're all more of a budget or you don't want to share every slough with 20 other people, you might also want to spend some time outside the super popular areas like the Pacific and Arinau. Many of our best experiences, this is freaking magical. We're in other parts of Costa Rica, and that is what we're going to get to now. Number 8, Rio Nero Hot Springs. When you say Costa Rica, you save volcanoes, and when you save volcanoes, you say hot springs. After a long hike, there is nothing quite like soaking in modern nature's very own hot tub. These are the Rio Nero Hot Springs. A complex with over 10 different pools, either by the active Arincon de la Viaja volcano. Here you can see where the hot volcanic water comes in. That's really hot. It's a three hour drive northeast from Arinau. In terms of Costa Rica prices, this one is pretty affordable, it's 34 dollars per person, you get to use all the facilities for the whole day until 530 I think. You can also get some volcanic volcanic mud is supposed to be very good for your skin because of the minerals that are in it, and it's also a lot of fun. If you want to visit this area, you can also add on the Ringo de la Viaja National Park, which is right next door to the hot springs. There's beautiful hiking and hardly any people. Right now the volcano is erupting pretty much continuously, but when it's not erupting, you can even hike all the way up to the crater rim. Number 9, Puerto Viejo. Woo-hoo! We're officially diving into the Caribbean side of Costa Rica, which has some of our favorite spots in the country. Welcome to Puerto Viejo, the main town on the Caribbean coast where the rhythm of raggae meets the tranquility of the tropics. This laid-back paradise really embodies the Buddha Vida lifestyle. It's a bit more rustic than most of Costa Rica, but that kind of adds to the charm. If you want to try the many flavors of the Caribbean, literally visit the damada restaurant in the city center to sample some Caribbean meals. From freshly caught seafood, the traditional dishes infused with coconut and spices. We also highly recommend a visit to Cabita National Park where the rainforests kisses the Caribbean sea, and you can walk across white sand beaches while monkeys speak at you from the canopy overhead. Cabita has lots of cool wildlife and pure fellow gringos. And that number at number 10, Buinta Uva. This is one of the most underrated spots in Costa Rica, and it will blow your mind. It's located near the sun and most end of the Caribbean coast blows to play out Manzanio. Play out Manzanio embodies everything you love about the Caribbean, swaying palm trees, and that signature Caribbean blue water is the perfect place to come for a snorkel or a swim. And just a short drive from here you'll find Buinta Uva, our favorite secret spot in Costa Rica. This is where the Caribbean sea connects to a system of mangroves that you can explore by kayak. It is one of those rare places where you get some of the best of Costa Rica's nature and wildlife all to yourself. Oh, and did I mention the wildlife? There's no entrance fee to the mangroves and kayak rentals are only about $17 per person. Car breakings are common in this area though, so do try to park in the parking lot of a nearby hotel for a small fee if you can. If you want to find out what the places in this top 10 are really like in person so that you can decide if they're right for your next visit to Costa Rica. Check out some of the other videos of our Costa Rica series. Maybe start with this one?This is what Costa Rica looks like. Welcome back to Costa Rica! We're Eric and Sarah and we've been traveling through Latin America for the past year and we picked up some tips and tricks along the way. But our number one question before coming to Costa Rica is, was, should we rent a car and we've read very mixed reviews online so we wanted to investigate for ourselves and figure out whether it's worth it to rent a car in Costa Rica. So while we're here in Costa Rica we're traveling with Sarah's brother, his wife and their 11 month old son. So we've rented a car for the next three weeks just to see for ourselves what it's like. Later in this video we'll be showing a lot of pros and cons, we'll share the costs, we'll share who we went with. But for right now our goal is to show you our experience of whether or not it's worth it for you to rent a car in Costa Rica. So let's get started. Oh by the way before we get going if you're not subscribed to our channel make sure to do that now because in every country we go to we show you a series of videos called the month in and we always share helpful tips about where to go, what you should do and how to do it, how much things cost. So you don't want to miss any of our Costa Rica videos so make sure to subscribe right now. So we don't really describe ourselves as purely budget travelers however I think whenever somebody's traveling just about everybody's on a budget. So when we flew from Guatemala to Costa Rica it was actually cheaper for us to fly into San Jose rather than Liberia even though Liberia is closer to the coast where we were trying to go and it was cheaper for us to go into San Jose however the opposite was true for Jeremy and Lauren. So we'd actually ended up renting a car and going from San Jose to Liberia took us about four hours and now we've been spending some time here on Plyzo Coco and it's beautiful right here we're just sitting here for sunset and I think we have Sarah way over there on the beach doing something. Doing some sort of Sasquatch walk. It's already time to say goodbye to Plyzo Coco we just picked up our new SUV for rental for the next couple weeks and since there's four of us we have so much stuff and I don't know if we got in a big enough vehicle to be honest because it's like absolutely packed to the gills but we're on a way to Santa Teresa and it's time to go. Ready to go Sarah? Woohoo! Road trip! Real quick let me tell you about the sponsor of this video which is Skillshare. Look traveling is super fun and there are so many different experiences to be had and if you're anything like us you want to be able to show those experiences to your friends and family back home. You're probably not going to be bringing a laptop but you have a decent camera on your phone. The only thing is you don't really know how to use it and that's where Skillshare comes in. Skillshare is an online learning community with thousands of classes to help you expand your creativity. For example to level up our own phone photography we've been learning from Sean Dalton about how to edit photos on our phone efficiently quickly and also just make them look more professional. Again maybe you're traveling right now maybe you don't have a laptop with you and you just have your phone. Well that's perfect because Skillshare also has a mobile app so you can just take your phone take a photo on that phone learn how to edit on that phone and then send that photo home from your phone. So if you're interested in joining Skillshare the first 1000 subscribers to click the link in the description or use our code the bombs away we'll get access to a one-month free trial to Skillshare and you can start expanding your creativity today. So we've had a rental car for about a week now and one of the major pros that we've realized is just the freedom we have to be able to just do whatever we want in the day. For example today we actually went on a day trip here from Santa Teresa to Montezuma waterfall and we were just able to go on our own and explore the waterfall for as long as we wanted not have to figure out any sort of transportation to get there and back and even here in Santa Teresa it's kind of spread out so it's nice to have a car to be able to even go and get groceries or explore different beaches. So that's been a major pro for us it's just having the freedom to not have to sort out like any sort of bus taxi or those kind of things it's just nice to be able to go where you want when you want and yeah not have to feel bad even if it's just a little trip for like half an hour you know but a con that we've realized is that you kind of need to have a plan for your whole trip and we're not really used to that we're used to just kind of planning as we go but we've realized that if you if you don't kind of have most of your trip planned out then the car can often end up just sitting for days at a time if you're not using it and we've noticed that especially in these beach towns sometimes we just feel like spending the whole day at the beach so the car doesn't get used but you can't really rent a car for like two days on and two days off and keep returning and getting a new one if that makes sense so you kind of have to just be prepared to commit having it for the whole length of your trip if that makes sense so just something to take into consideration if you decide whether to rent a car or not. Well today's road trip includes driving from Santa Teresa all the way to Monteverde and you can definitely tell that we're here in the dry season because it's a lot more dead and brown but at the further we get and closer we get to Monteverde the more green it gets we're climbing up through the mountains and it is so so beautiful this drive is amazing okay we were getting really nervous on the coast because we found out it was the dry season and honestly everything was super brown and we were really nervous that we weren't going to see any green but now that we're here in Monteverde seriously this is insane like this is so much green this is the Costa Rica that we came for so now that we're in the mountains we're really going to be able to test whether or not it was worth it for us to rent a car here in Costa Rica because when we were on the beach there was a lot more down days and a lot more beach days whereas here in the mountains things are more spread apart so really you're going to be going on a lot more day trips like to hear into the Santa Elena cloud forest so so beautiful we're just on a bridge over some water so nice this is so amazing just happy to be here so we're here in La Fortuna we've actually been here for a week now and my parents and one of my sisters joined us and they decided to rent a car as well this beautiful sedan nice guy but yeah they've been driving around in the car all week and have we've had no issues like meaning a 4x4 so if you're renting a car here don't worry that you need 4x4 because most of the roads are really good the clearance of our other SUV is a little bit nicer for the big potholes but you can totally get by with just a car in any place that we visited so far so driving in Costa Rica is really quite simple I would say it's comparable to driving back home really like I know some people are maybe scared to drive in Latin American countries because they hear the roads are crazy but everyone drives pretty normal like it's not really that crazy maybe every so often you have someone who passes you on a corner but you know what that happens sometimes at home too and maybe also certain areas are a little bit more narrow like when we were driving up to Monteverde super narrow and windy but you really just got to take your time and really if you're a confident driver it's not that difficult so after having the car for about three weeks I think we can confidently say that it is well worth it for at least for us to have rented a car there's four of us and a baby and it's been really nice to not have to search out price out and book different shuttles or buses and honestly for us it's been super nice not to have to walk around with our backpacks on our front and our back just to just to get around we can just throw it in the car and we're good to go so for us because there's four of us it's totally worth it and the biggest thing that we would recommend is to book your rental cars early we rented our car about two months in advance and it came out to 72 dollars a day and we have now since booked another car because of the freedom and independent set that we like to have now here in Costa Rica I never thought I would hear ourselves it now it's about a hundred dollars a day because we booked it later so it's a difference of about thirty dollars so again it kind of depends on your budget if there's one or two of you maybe it's not so worth it but because there's been four of us you know we've been able to split it and it's been okay so if you made it this far in the video you're probably wondering so how do we actually rent a car in Costa Rica and where should we rent from so if you come to Costa Rica it's often one of the biggest problems here is that people feel like they get scammed by car companies and the main reason this happens is because they'll go through some big company online and then when they get here to Costa Rica they end up having way more charges put on top so even for my parents they originally got a quote from a different company and it was gonna end up being almost twice as much when they actually arrived here because in Costa Rica there is a there is a mandatory car insurance that has to be added onto your thing no matter what your credit card covers a lot of people get here and then they feel like they get scammed which is what you definitely want to avoid so after doing a bunch of research we ended up finding a guy named Hiro and he has this company called Carrentals Costa Rica and USA and we'll link it below for you and this is not a promotion for him or anything we are not getting sponsored by him we just actually really love his services so his whole thing is that there's no hidden fees so if you rent a car from him he'll give you a quote and when you show up here the price that he gave you is the price you pay and we have now rented four different cars here and we can attest to that being true so it's really nice and it's really nice that we've been able to have him available when we need to call someone we've had a couple issues with our cars and we've he's been able to just like contact them what's that we don't have to deal with anything we literally just text him or call him and say hey something's not working out yeah says a kl call you back in 20 minutes and in 20 minutes it's solved yeah it's pretty sweet so nice to have somebody like on the ground that's right help you at any point so we highly recommend looking into his services if you're gonna rent a car here he does work alongside alamos you end up renting a car through alamo but he's able to get you the best price and yeah one thing we would say is definitely regardless of this just always make sure to check your receipts and check everything on your reservations we had a couple times where we showed up and the dates are wrong or a few things are wrong in the charge that we got on our credit card so always just check all those things but otherwise this is a great great way to not feel like you get scam and Costa Rica well the time has come to finally return our rental car the last one for the rest of our trip we're gonna be using the buses which the one bonus of navigating the buses in public transportation is you do get to interact with a lot more locals so we are excited for that party that's right but it's been super nice to be able to rent a car at least for the first few weeks of our trip here especially because we've been traveling with family as well like we said with Sarah's brother and sister and their baby we've been able to go around really easily and they haven't had to navigate buses or anything so for us it's totally been worth it to rent a car yeah definitely with four people hundred percent worth it i would say yeah and if you have any questions about renting a car and so straight up please let us know in the comments we'd love to hear what you thought of this video and if you have further questions we'll be answering them there that's right we'll see in the next one why why your car so many angles girlsCalling all travel lovers and wanderlusters, your dream destination awaits as we embark on an exhilarating escapade through Costa Rica's absolute must visit spots. Get ready to feast your eyes on astonishing landscapes and immerse yourself in the vibrant culture of this tropical paradise in part two of our extraordinary travel series. Despite its modest size, Costa Rica is a vast natural wonderland. Nessled between Nicaragua and Panama, this country showcases an unparalleled abundance of plant and animal species alongside a diverse landscape comprising mountains, valleys, forests, volcanoes, beaches, lakes, and rivers. Here is a comprehensive guide to the top destinations worth exploring in Costa Rica. Number 10. Tamarindo. Tamarindo is a favored choice for family vacations and eco-adventures due to its constant sunshine, stunning vistas, relaxed ambiance, and convenient proximity to national parks. Situated on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, Tamarindo stands out as one of the most developed and easily accessible beach towns in the area. With well-paved roads and a multitude of tourist amenities available, it offers an ideal destination for travelers seeking both natural beauty and modern comforts. Tamarindo, situated on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, attracts tourists with its year-round sunny weather, stunning vistas, relaxed ambiance, and convenient access to national parks. It is a highly sought-after destination for family getaways and eco-adventures due to its well-developed infrastructure and abundance of tourist amenities. With paved roads and numerous facilities in place, Tamarindo stands out as one of the most accessible beach towns in the region. Located in close proximity to the rainforest, tourists have the opportunity to partake in various thrilling experiences such as exploring the jungle on foot, taking ATV tours, horseback riding, and engaging in exhilarating whitewater rafting. Additionally, this region is home to one of the nation's most significant sanctuaries for nesting leatherback sea turtles, Marino Las Balas National Park, making it an ideal destination for hiking enthusiasts who can also enjoy bird-watching and observing diverse wildlife. Number 9. San Jose, nestled amidst verdant valleys and majestic mountains, San Jose, the capital and largest city of Costa Rica, is a contemporary metropolis that offers a plethora of amenities such as lodging options, shopping centers, dining establishments, vibrant nightlife spots, and rich cultural experiences. With its convenient accessibility by foot or through taxis and buses, this lively city sits on a plateau at the heart of the country. Consequently, it serves as an ideal hub for embarking on adventures to various other enchanting destinations within Costa Rica. San Jose's vibrant city scape seamlessly blends historic Spanish architecture with modern-day design, creating an alluring fusion. The bustling downtown area is a hub of activity, housing significant landmarks, government buildings, cultural venues, and the constant buzz of traffic. For those seeking to delve into the country's rich history, art, culture, and wildlife, San Jose offers a plethora of museums to explore. Additionally, tourists can immerse themselves in the captivating world of performing arts at various centers and theaters that host year-round concerts, dances and dramas. Among these notable venues stands the National Theatre, renowned for its architectural grandeur, and regarded as one of the country's most remarkable attractions. For visitors looking for unique souvenirs or indulging in retail therapy, the vivid markets scattered across San Jose present an array of colorful options. A must-visit destination for shopping enthusiasts is San Pedro Mall, one of Central America's largest malls where endless shopping delights await. Within the city, one can discover tranquility and opportunities for outdoor leisure in the enchanting plazas, verdant landscapes, and public parks adorned with gardens, lakes, sports facilities, and artistic installations. Among these cherished spaces are notable attractions such as the National Park, San Jose Central Park, and La Sabana Metropolitan Park. For families seeking a memorable experience together, the Simon Bolivar Zoo offers an array of animal species not only from Costa Rica, but also from various corners of the globe. Number 8, Rincondela Vieja, situated in the northern Pacific region of Costa Rica, Rincondela Vieja National Park derives its name from its primary attraction, a sizable and steaming volcano. This National Park is renowned for its captivating natural features including craters, vapor vents, bubbling mud pits and hot springs. Additionally, it boasts an abundance of diverse flora and fauna that contribute to its popularity as a destination. In composing the volcano are vast expanses of hiking trails that wind through lush greenery and cloud forests to unveil breathtaking sights such as magnificent waterfalls, volcanic craters, simmering mud cauldrons, and meadows adorned with vibrant purple orchids. Among these trails is Las Pylas, a short circuit trail suitable for hikers of all experience levels. It leads to mesmerizing fumaroles and bubbling mud pots. Another notable trail named Cendero Congreja offers hikers access to the park's most celebrated cascades known as the Hidden Waterfalls, which cascade into picturesque lagoones and naturally formed swimming pools. For more experienced trekkers seeking greater challenges, there is an 8-hour round-trip hike leading to the crater at the summit of this awe-inspiring volcano. Aside from hiking, visitors to the park can partake in an array of activities such as camping, engaging in canopy tours, horseback riding, experiencing whitewater tubing, indulging in hot springs relaxation, and observing the diverse wildlife including parrots, two cans, two toads sloths, and howler monkeys. For some individuals seeking a unique experience, they have the option to stay at one of the operational cattle ranches within the park. Here they can engage in daily tasks such as hurting cattle and tending to horses. Most travelers access the National Park via rental cars or take taxis or buses from Liberia, a nearby town. Number 7. Corcovado National Park Considered by numerous individuals as the most valuable asset of Costa Rica's National Park System, Corcovado National Park offers an abundance of extraordinary wildlife encounters, making it a destination that promises plentiful sights. Located on the OSA peninsula in the southwest region of Costa Rica, this park encompasses diverse ecosystems such as mangrove swamps, rainforests, palm forests, cloud forests, and coastal habitats including picturesque beaches. Corcovado National Park offers an unparalleled opportunity to encounter some of Costa Rica's rarest and most elusive species such as red-backed squirrel monkeys, jaguars, harpy eagles, white-lipped peckeries, and bears take taxis. Visitors can also catch a glimpse of osalots, pumas, sloths, coades, various monkey species including howler monkeys, spider monkeys, and white-faced capuchins, poison dart frogs, glass frogs, and a plethora of bird species. Exploring the park's hiking trails will not only lead you to these incredible wildlife sightings, but also expose you to fascinating rock formations, exotic flora, and breathtaking waterfalls. In addition to its rich biodiversity, Corcovado National Park boasts stunning coastal scenery that may treat visitors with sightings of sea turtles, hermit crabs, pelicans, and scarlet macaws soaring overhead. Strolling along the beach allows for a unique perspective on the park's diverse ecosystem. As an alternative way to experience this natural wonderland, you can opt for canoeing along the river, enjoying close encounters with its abundant wildlife. As Corcovado National Park, you must first make your way to Puerto Jimenez, the nearest town. There you will find options for arranging tours as well as renting bicycles, horses, four-wheel drive vehicles, or opting for a bus ride. Corcovado is equipped with four ranger stations that offer lodging, dining facilities, and camping grounds. Making use of these amenities ensures a comfortable stay while immersing yourself in the park's remarkable beauty. Number 6. Playa Jaco. Situated just a short distance from San Jose, Playa Jaco is an immensely popular spot that showcases the finest aspects of Costa Rica. From its stunning beaches to its abundant wildlife, outdoor adventures, and vibrant nightlife, this coastal town offers it all. Playa Jaco is renowned for its relaxed and festive ambience, as well as its exceptional surfing opportunities. Playa Jaco, although popular among tourists, maintains its reputation as a pristine and tranquil beach where individuals can indulge in sunbathing, swimming, surfing, and sport fishing. Moreover, for those keen on learning to surf, there are local surfing schools and classes available. What sets Playa Jaco apart is its proximity to tropical jungles, nature reserves, and national parks which provide remarkable opportunities for eco tours such as horseback riding, canopy tours, ATV expeditions, safaris, whitewater rafting adventures, and observing wildlife including monkeys and scarlet macaws. Due to its high tourist appeal, Playa Jaco boasts a diverse selection of restaurants offering both international cuisines, as well as traditional Costa Rican dishes. Furthermore, the nightlife scene in Playa Jaco is considered one of the most vibrant in Costa Rica, with numerous choices ranging from casinos to bars, discos, nightclubs, and dive bars. Number 5. Manuel Antonio, National Park Although it may be the smallest national park in Costa Rica, Manuel Antonio National Park is also the most frequented due to its convenient proximity to San Jose. This park offers visitors an extraordinary experience with its stunning beauty and diverse landscapes, abundant wildlife, and a wide range of activities. Situated on Costa Rica's mid-Pacific coast near the city of Cuepose, Manuel Antonio boasts a captivating mixture of ecosystems that include lush rainforests, pristine sandy beaches, and breathtaking coral reefs. As a result, it has become a highly sought-after destination for families, backpackers, surfers, snorkelers, birdwatchers, and eco-tourists alike. Manuel Antonio National Park offers an extensive array of outdoor activities and thrilling adventures. These include swimming, surfing, snorkeling, diving, sea kayaking, whale-watching, sport-fishing, whitewater rafting, and mountain biking. The park boasts numerous hiking trails that provide breathtaking views of the surroundings, and opportunities to witness magnificent waterfalls, and a variety of wildlife such as howler monkeys, iguanas, and parrots. If lucky enough, one might even spot the endangered TT monkeys. To reach Manuel Antonio National Park from Cipose City, where accommodation options along with dining and nightlife choices are available, visitors can rely on frequent bus services. Number 4. Arena Volcano. Rising majestically in a flawlessly balanced form above the verdant hills and pastures of Costa Rica's northern lowlands, Arena Volcano stands as one of the nation's most sought-after tourist destinations. For many years, Arena was renowned as Costa Rica's most active volcano, captivating visitors with breathtaking displays of erupting lava through frequent but minor explosions. However, in 2010, Arena'll enter the dormant phase, temporarily halting its eruptions without a set duration. Nevertheless, the vicinity surrounding Arena continues to offer an abundance of awe-inspiring sights and thrilling activities for travelers to indulge in. Arena Volcano National Park safeguards the region encompassing Arena Volcano, as well as the inactive Chateau Volcano. This protected area boasts stunning vistas of lakes, rivers, mountains, and rainforests. Visitors can indulge in a plethora of exhilarating activities such as fishing, whitewater rafting, mountain climbing, hiking, horseback riding, ziplining, canopy tours, caving, and waterfall repelling. These natural landscapes provide ample opportunities for thrilling adventures amidst breathtaking surroundings. The Arena Volcano region is a haven for nature enthusiasts and wildlife lovers, boasting a diverse array of exotic flowers, mammals like howler monkeys, deer and jaguars, as well as an abundance of colorful birds such as parrots and resplendent quetzels. Additionally, the geothermal activity in Arena provides visitors with the opportunity to indulge in various hot springs that cater to every style and budget while offering breathtaking views of the majestic volcano. Furthermore, there are numerous resorts in the area that provide accommodation options and organized tours. Serving as the gateway to the Arena Volcano is the charming town of La Fortuna de San Carlos, which can be easily accessed by bus from San Jose. Number 3 Monteverd Cloud Forest Reserve. It serves as a harmonious symphony of nature, echoing the enchanting melodies of exotic birds, animals, reptiles, and insects. Nestled within the Cordillera de Tilaran mountain range in central Costa Rica, this reserve is an esteemed hotspot for tourists who seek to immerse themselves in awe and inspire visitors. It serves as a natural landscape, and it is an unparalleled lure that allows them to live in their breath taking vistas, remarkable biodiversity, and a wide array of activities that cater to every visitor's preferences. The reserve can be accessed by buses from the neighboring town of Monteverd. It offers various amenities such as a small lodge, restaurant, and gift shop. One popular activity here is hiking along the numerous trails to behold magnificent waterfalls and observe exotic flowers and plants. Visitors can also keep an eye out for wildlife species like tapers, agudas, frogs, wild pigs, monkeys, porcupines, butterflies, and the rare, resplendent kretsal, a bird that held great significance in Mayan culture. Apart from hiking, there are other ways to immerse oneself in the cloud forests abundant wildlife. These include horseback riding adventures through its enchanting landscapes, or engaging in canopy tours that take you soaring over treetops. For those seeking more excitement and thrill-seeking experiences while exploring this jungle paradise, zip-line adventures await. Moreover, on the reserve sits a dairy farm established by Quakers during the 1950s. Visitors have opportunities to purchase cheese and ice cream made on site while participating in informative tours about cheese production processes. Additionally, there is a nature center where visitors can stroll through butterfly gardens, gaining knowledge about Monteverdy Cloud Forest Reserve's diverse ecosystem. Number 2. Tortugero National Park. Situated in the remote northeastern region of Costa Rica. With access limited to boats or airplanes, Tortugero National Park stands as one of the most frequented national parks in the country. As a prominent turtle sanctuary within the western Caribbean, its main allure lies in the nesting and hatching activities of sea turtles along its pristine shores. Thanks to its damp tropical climate, Tortugero National Park provides an ideal habitat for a diverse range of plant and animal species. Rainforests, wetlands, mangroves, beaches, canals and lagoons flourish abundantly here, transforming it into an idyllic haven for nature enthusiasts. Visitors are especially drawn to guided beach walks that offer glimpses of mother turtles nesting, as well as hatchlings embarking on their race toward the sea. The optimal period for observing green and hawks-built turtles is from July to October, whereas leatherback turtles typically nest between February and April. Aside from the turtles, the park offers various other attractions. Tourists have the opportunity to embark on boat rides or paddle canoes through the mangroves and canals to catch a glimpse of a diverse range of wildlife. This includes mammals like manatees, sloths, river otters, tapers and several species of monkeys such as spider monkeys, howler monkeys and capuchin monkeys. Additionally, visitors may spot vibrant avian creatures like green macaws, two cans, parrots and herons. Reptiles also make their presence known in this habitat with giant iguanas, basalisk lizards and crocodiles being among them. 1. Chiripo National Park, encompassing the provinces of Limon, Cartago and San Jose in southern Costa Rica, lies the Chiripo National Park. This remarkable sanctuary serves as a haven for ecotourists and enthusiasts of nature due to its vast range of habitats and diverse wildlife species. Apply named after Chiripo, the highest peak in all of Costa Rica. This National Park boasts a combination of grassy mountain plateaus, flourishing fern groves, serene marshlands, verdant rainforests and crystalline glacial lakes, all teeming with an abundance of flora and fauna. Visitors can truly immerse themselves in the beauty and richness that this natural treasure trove has to offer. Within the National Park, there are several remarkable attractions that stand out. These include the mesmerizing La Amestade International Park, Cloud Forest, Rabbit Valley, Montesinfei and Serotereby, all of which offer stunning views of nature's beauty. The park is equipped with clearly marked trails that allow visitors to explore its diverse landscapes while also providing opportunities for glimpses of monkeys, iguanas and rare bird species like the magnificent Quetzal. It's important to note that temperatures can drop significantly at night in this area and those who plan on reaching the mountain summit should be prepared for a three-day round-trip journey. The Costa Rican National Park is a rare destination suitable for those interested in technical rock climbing. Throughout the park, there are ranger stations conveniently situated, providing camping facilities, basic accommodations and valuable visitor information. Cheripo can be easily accessed from the town of San Acidrodale, General. Do you agree with our picks? Check out these other recent videos from 10 minutes travel and be sure to subscribe and ring the bell to be notified about our latest videos.Hello my friends and fellow travelers my name is Pierce this is Tales from the Road thanks so much for stopping by Today we're obviously talking about the beautiful Central American nation of Costa Rica This is a really cool place a place I've spent time a place where I have friends and a place that is often overlooked as far as the amazing diverse tourist opportunities that you can do here I'm gonna tell you everything you need to know before you go So I'm gonna tell you a little bit of the good a little bit of the bad what to avoid what to do the hidden gems and everything in between If that sounds good come along for the ride to Costa Rica. Bamo, Miyamigos First and foremost let's get into a little cultural and geographical background of Costa Rica So we can understand this place that we're going to visit a little bit better Costa Rica is truly a central American nation Right at the heart of this crossroads between north and south America It has Nicaragua to its north. It has Panama to its south the history of Costa Rica as well as the greater central America is really defined by pre-Indigenous tribes that lived in this region before Spanish colonialism and then the colonial period Which lasted for 300 years the Spanish colonial period is what really gave rise to the main Costa Rican cities The main staples of the greater culture of Costa Rica the language the religion and everything else in between That doesn't mean that you can't find indigenous communities within Costa Rica It just isn't the predominant culture you'll find there the reason why many tourists come to Costa Rica Specifically is not necessarily to see and explore their culture But to see and explore their incredibly bio diverse nature and amazing beaches, mountains, volcanoes and everything in between Costa Rica offers some of the best nature reserves anywhere in the world and hosts an incredible diversity of flora and fauna For me Costa Rica is incredibly interesting because for many Americans It's just a place to go to the beach But it actually is an incredibly diverse country with a long story with a lot going on So let's talk about that in the more practical section First and foremost with regarding visas Costa Rica is pretty easy for most people All Americans get 90 days visa-free entrance into Costa Rica and you're probably going to arrive in one of two airports Either Liberia if you're visiting the north of Costa Rica or San Jose if you're planning on visiting the center or south of the country When booking a trip to Costa Rica make sure that you pick your destination first before you pick your airport Because if you fly to San Jose but you want to visit the north of Costa Rica It creates a lot of hassle within your trip and vice versa if you want to visit the south of Costa Rica and you fly to Liberia Something to think of before you buy tickets So speaking of getting around the country the transportation in Costa Rica is not incredibly easy Of course you can do internal flights flying from San Jose to Liberia and Liberia to San Jose And then other than that you are stuck with tourist buses or buses to get from city to city around the country The tourist buses are not the cheapest honestly So you can also take local buses although the local bus connections are a bit confusing and complicated Depending on if you speak Spanish and depending on the day and of course the arrival time because sometimes buses don't run on schedule in Costa Rica When you're traveling within cities you can of course take taxis which I always recommend when you travel to south and central America You can use taxi apps in Costa Rica although Uber has actually been outlawed although people do technically still use Uber You just normally have to sit in the front seat So you look like a friend as opposed to a client riding in the back seat Personally, I actually had a pretty negative experience with the transportation in Costa Rica I was supposed to get a bus to the north from San Jose central station The taxi driver informed me that the bus I was waiting for didn't exist and that he would drive me to Aula Huela Which is a city just a little bit north of San Jose where I could find another bus The taxi driver of course that he would drive me there he seemed like a nice guy so I got in the taxi Just about 30 minutes later. I had a $90 taxi bill which I certainly did not consent to and he dropped me at a bus station Where there was no bus that ever came for even the most experienced travelers these mistakes Understandable Spanish's if you just like our learning Spanish they speak Not incredibly fast and they don't have a crazy accent twist like Argentinians like Mexicans like Spanish people from Spain Costa Rican Spanish is the most baseline Spanish So it's awesome if you're learning and they're great people to practice with because everyone is so friendly and so nice Also very very helpful the whole spirit of Costa Rica goes with their one saying which you'll see on a lot of tourists stuff Which is Buaravira Mai which is basically like Life is a good bro, and it's true The weather is always nice the vibe is always good the beer is always cold and the beaches are always beautiful Costa Rican's really do embody that spirit even though life in Costa Rica for local people is not necessarily the easiest Because of the weird price inflation due to all the tourism Safety While Costa Rican's are amazing people that doesn't mean it isn't a central American country And it doesn't mean that Costa Rica is the safest place in the world If you go to San Jose, Liberia or any big city in Costa Rica There are gangs there is violence and it can be very sketchy especially in the downtowns in the nighttime or even during the daytime to be honest I would actually stay to 10 days in San Jose and I booked a place in the downtown Ignorantly not knowing that in central and south american downtowns are typically not the place you want to stay And it was terribly sketchy and I really did not enjoy my time that much Many people of course would go to the tourist zone spend time on the coast and I think in Costa Rica That's probably what you should do because the cities in Costa Rica are really nothing to see and also can be a bit sketchy The rules for traveling in central and south america are pretty basic Know where your wallet is know where you're staying Don't walk around places where you shouldn't be Don't look like a tourist overtly And just have your head on a swivel because People will steal from you people can hurt you not that they all do But it is always a possibility when traveling in this region I actually have worked with a lot of Costa Ricans for my job And a lot of my Costa Rican clients actually complained that the government is not doing enough to provide Safety and security within the cities in Costa Rica. There's a sort of saying in Costa Rica that the people living in cities actually live in prison While their criminals run free and you'll see this in Costa Rica because a lot of people And this is not just Costa Rica but all of central and south america a lot of people's homes actually have bars in front So people can't break into their house They'll have a gate maybe with another gate and then on the windows there's bars which for a good reason Is to prevent people from stealing stuff or hurting them or whatever But it's a truth of central and south america and as an american and something that's a bit sad to see But it's just the reality of living there now of course And if you're a tourist and you're on a tourist destination resort and all this stuff This really won't affect you just make sure you follow the main rules for travel in central and south america And be aware with where you go and who you talk to so now we're onto my favorite section Which of course is food Costa Rican cuisine was actually something completely unknown to me because we don't have a lot of Costa Rican's where I'm from and Something that was a little bit more diverse than I was expecting So if you're in the western half of Costa Rica a lot of the dishes really resembled what we consider typical central american or south american food Lots of rice and beans which in Costa Rica they call guayopinto which they eat for breakfast You can also have it for lunch They also have dishes called casados which is basically like a plate with meat Rice and beans a salad and then you know You can also have some various really interesting drinks in Costa Rica because they have this For us which grows fruit that you've probably never seen before so the food in general is not very spicy It's pretty basic, but it is all very good What I didn't know is that on the eastern side of Costa Rica the side that borders the Caribbean They actually have a lot of immigrants that have come from the Caribbean islands So if you go to a city called limon or you eat food from limon it has a little Caribbean Spice flavor to it Everything's a little bit spicier. It resembles maybe a little bit more Jamaican food And you can even find people living in that area that speak a type of sort of Jamaican Spanish-English creole combination that is heavily influenced from the Caribbean in general So one side very Spanish very very central american the other side a little bit more Caribbean little spicy little Little more interesting for me personally because I love spicy food That being said and because of the tourist industry They have a lot of different restaurants to go to so if you don't want to eat Costa Rica in food the whole time You're there you can find sushi you can find Chinese food you can find Indian food You can find american hamburgers and all that stuff So if you're interested more in that they have it for you for sure So as a final note for this video I'm going to tell you some things that I love to do also things that I've been recommended by my Costa Rican friends So that you can pick some amazing things to do that maybe are Really on the tourist track or totally not really depends on what you're looking for Costa Rica is a really touristy place and me personally I don't like touristy places So I always try to do something a little bit different than the more beaten tourist path And these are some of my favorites that I found as far as national parks go This is something you have to do in Costa Rica and some of the best ones include Parque Corte Guadalu all the way in the south Parque Manuel Antonio, which has I think one of the most biodiverse National parks in the entire planet if not the most biodiverse park in the entire planet So that one is definitely great This is all if you're going to the south eastern part of Costa Rica Another place that is incredible that I actually did go to is called Montevere de which they also call it the cloud forest of Costa Rica Costa Rica while being on the equator is very much mountainous So that means they've got like pockets of sort of like permanently not cold cold is the wrong word But permanently sort of middle temperature And because they have so much Humidity in the air it creates these clouds and fog that sort of hugs the mountains If never really seen anything like it you can drive down the mountain and it can be 90 degrees super hot super humid and then you drive up the mountain and it can be cloudy and foggy and like You know like maybe like 55 degrees something like very unique to Costa Rica And I think that's what makes the sort of nature so interesting to explore You can of course also go all the way to the north to Juan Acaste Which is a province that borders Nicaragua and that area is extremely hot the hottest part of the whole country I think guts up to like a hundred and 105 every day It's flatter it's drier and they have really vast mountains and volcanoes It's something very particular so every place you go in Costa Rica is Biodeverse is unique interesting and you can really have so many different visuals and vibes all in the same country It's really incredible The next thing that you have to do is you have to see volcanoes It doesn't matter which volcano you go to the most recommended is Audenal right by Montevierde which is the cloud forest And I went there. It's extremely unique extremely interesting It's actually still an active volcano and you can do amazing hikes in that region I totally recommend it But if you can't make it to Audenal Just because it's far or you don't have the funds or you don't really want to and you want to go to a closer volcano There are also many other volcanoes in the north in Juan Acaste and in the central valley region by San Jose I went to another volcano hold Volcano Irasu Also very interesting huge crater volcano and it's cold So make sure to bring a jacket because the higher you go up in Costa Rica it can actually be quite chilly The volcanoes are unique and interesting and something really worth taking your time to get outside and go see Next you have to go see some beach and get some beach vibes because that's like really what Costa Rica is all about Whether that's going to be on the Caribbean east side like in places like Puerto Viejo Which is all the way in the southeast near the border of Panama Or the Nicoia Peninsula which is in the northwest of the country which you can go to places like Tamarindo Which is the biggest backpacking hostel place As well as other places within the Nicoia Peninsula Including Montezuma which is an amazing kind of like hidden beach all the way in the south of the peninsula You can also go to the very traditional old school tourist spots like Haco and Uvita where a lot of American ex-pats live um I wouldn't necessarily spend my whole vacation there But they are beautiful regardless nice sunsets cold beers lots of options lots of international restaurants things to do ATV rides zip lining trips uh into the forests you know all the tourist stuff is all in these locations So if that's what you want to do with your trip definitely not a bad place to do it Probably the most expensive places you're going to go to in the country though So for me, I'm a city and culture traveler and ironically speaking I am not going to recommend you to go to any city in Costa Rica for more than one day So it's not to say that the cities are bad in Costa Rica and I don't want to give you a bad impression I just thought they were not great and when you talk to Costa Ricans They also will tell you that they're not great So I'm going to say don't waste your time because I waste way more time in cities than I should have San Jose Uh has an interesting city center with you know, it has nightlife at its cafes but kind of a scary city especially at night and I didn't like it There's a city near San Jose called alahuela which has a much better old town So if you want to see a nice old town go to alahuela If you want to see a big church go to a city called cartago This is all in the San Jose basin and there's a lot to see there Although just don't waste your time going to the cities. They're not that special They're not that unique and they're not actually that historic Having really only history for less than you would find for example in Philadelphia in the United States Liberia in the north again a small city small little old town really not much to see It's really just a launching point for going into the more Nature reserve areas of Costa Rica. Also as I said There's the more of the Caribbean area centered around a city called limon limon is also a bit dangerous and a bit scary So I don't necessarily want anyone to go there on behalf of this recommendation What you should do in Costa Rica is see spectacular outdoors things Save the city travel for another country So that's going to do it for me in this video Thank you guys so much for watching I really love Costa Rica. I have good friends from Costa Rica. I can't recommend it highly enough because the stuff you see there is so unique and so deeply Interesting to connect with nature. I'm not a huge nature guy, but Costa Rica was definitely worth it That being said make sure to like and subscribe. It always helps me out on the channel Also make sure to follow me on Instagram and on TikTok with my project 197 where I cook a dish from every country in the world I haven't made a dish from Costa Rica yet, but I'm planning on probably making guayopinto Which is the national dish the thing that people love deeply So that's going to do it for me. I hope to see you guys in the next video and of course, pura vida maiIn this video, we'll explore some of the top places to visit in Costa Rica, from the capital city of San Jose to the wildlife rich Manuel Antonio and the famous Aranov volcano. We've got you covered. We'll also dive into the lesser known gems of the country, like the secluded Corcovado National Park and the breathtaking Rio Celeste Waterfall. Number 15, San Jose. This friendly capital city is clean and welcoming, with a mix of old and new architecture. And with so many things to see and do, you'll never get bored. One of the must-see attractions in San Jose is the National Museum of Costa Rica. This museum is packed with exhibits on the history, culture, and natural history of the country. And it's a great way to learn about all the amazing things Costa Rica has to offer. But the museum isn't the only thing worth checking out. There's also Plaza de la Cuchura, which is home to beautiful architecture and several museums. Or, if you want to see some colorful markets, head over to the central market. And if you're a fan of nature, don't miss the Botanical Gardens at La Sabana Park. They're absolutely gorgeous. And of course, no trip to San Jose would be complete without trying some delicious Costa Rican cuisine. The city is home to a ton of great restaurants, so you'll have plenty of options to choose from. And if you're interested in history, don't miss the Gold Museum, which contains displays of pre-Columbian gold and other treasures. Number 14. Manuel Antonio, located on the Pacific Coast. Manuel Antonio National Park is known for its stunning white sand beaches and crystal clear waters. There are also plenty of amazing hiking trails to explore, as well as secluded coves and bays where you can escape the crowds. And let's talk about the wildlife. Manuel Antonio National Park is home to a wide variety of animals, including three different types of monkeys that are just dying to meet you. You might also spot sloths, cotimundis, and a host of colorful birds flitting about. It's like a real life version of the movie Madagascar, except it's even better because it's real. But the fun doesn't stop when you leave the park. The nearby town of Manuel Antonio is also a great place to check out. There are tons of hotels, restaurants, and retail options to choose from, as well as a beach that's perfect for surfing or just lounging around. Trust us, you won't be disappointed by a visit to Manuel Antonio National Park. It's the ultimate Costa Rican adventure. Number 13. Adenal Volcano. Adenal Volcano is one of the most popular destinations in Costa Rica. And it's not hard to see why. This active volcano stands at over 5,000 feet tall and is known for its ash columns. And if you're lucky, blowing lava. Even if you don't get to see any lava, there's still plenty to do in the area. The National Park is home to great hiking trails, stunning sunset views over the lake, caving and canoeing opportunities, and famous hot springs. And if that's not enough, there's also the awesome Lafortuna waterfall to visit. You can take a hike to the base of the waterfall where you can swim in the crystal clear pool at its base. Or you can take a guided tour and repel down the falls for an even more thrilling experience. The Adenal Volcano National Park is also known for its biodiversity, with around half of all Costa Rican birds, reptiles, amphibians and mammals represented within its boundaries. And if you want to get up close and personal with the volcano, you can stay at the Adenal Observatory Lodge, which is located on a macadamia nut farm on the south side of the volcano. From there, you can enjoy excellent views of the volcano and Adenal Lake, as well as a hike on the many trails in the area. Number 12 Monteverde Cloud Forest The Monteverde Cloud Forest in Costa Rica is a mystical and mysterious destination that will leave you feeling like you've stepped into another world. Located on the continental divide, this lush and green paradise is home to an array of rare and exotic creatures, including the elusive Ketzelberg. With over 250,000 visitors each year, it's no surprise that Monteverde is one of the largest eco-tourism hubs in the country, but the magic doesn't stop there. The entire area is blanketed in clouds, providing the moisture necessary to sustain the unique and diverse habitats found within. And speaking of diversity, the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve is home to an array of animals, including howling monkeys, colorful frogs, and even jaguars if you're lucky enough to spot one. And if you're in the mood for some adventure, the Monteverde Cloud Forest has got you covered, ziplined through the tree canopy or explore the sky bridges for a bird's-eye view of this magical place. Or if you'd rather keep your feet on the ground, there are plenty of hiking trails and waterfalls to explore. Number 11 Totuuedo National Park Get ready to go wild in the Totuuedo National Park, Costa Rica's version of the Amazon rainforest. This 77,000 acre paradise is home to an array of rivers, canals, and jungle, and is especially known for its large population of sea turtles. In fact, the park is considered the birthplace of sea turtle conservation, and it's estimated that around 50,000 nests are laid each year. The best time to see the turtles in action is during the nesting season from May to October, but there's plenty of other wildlife to see all year round. Take a canal cruise or go hiking, and keep an eye out for monkeys, sloths, kinkajous, peckeries, tapers, and more. But the real highlight is definitely the turtle safaris, where you can witness these incredible creatures up close as they lay their eggs on the beach. Just don't forget to bring a guide, and maybe a flashlight too. Number 10 Crocodile Bridge Crocodile Bridge is a popular tourist destination located on the Tharigolese River. The bridge is known for its large population of crocodiles, which can often be seen basking in the sun on the banks of the river or swimming in the water below. The crocodiles at Crocodile Bridge are American crocodiles, which are native to the region. The bridge is a popular spot for tourists to stop and take photographs of the crocodiles, and there are often local vendors selling souvenirs and snacks nearby. Number 9 Tomorindo Tomorindo is the ultimate beach town for those who want a little bit of everything on their vacation. Located on the northern Nikoya Peninsula, this bustling town is known for its beautiful beaches, epic surf, and lively nightlife. Whether you're a seasoned surfer or a beginner, there's something for everyone in Tomorindo. From the shifting sandbars of the Esteto River to the mellow point break at the Capitan Suiso. When you're not riding the waves, you can explore the surrounding tropical dry forest and wetlands, home to a variety of amazing wildlife. Or if you're in the mood to party, there are tons of restaurants, bars, and pubs to choose from. And if you're feeling adventurous, head to the Marino Las Vowlis National Park to see thousands of nesting leatherback sea turtles between October and March, with its laid-back local culture and endless things to do. Tomorindo is the perfect place to relax and have a good time. Number 8 Uvita Uvita is known for its whale-watching opportunities. The town is situated near the Marino Bayena National Park, which is home to a number of different species of whales and dolphins. The most common species of whales that can be seen in the area are humpback whales, which migrate to the area to mate and give birth. Whale-watching season in Uvita typically runs from late December to early April and during this time. It is possible to see whales from the shore or by taking a boat tour. Many tour companies in the area offer whale-watching tours, and it's also possible to hire a local guide to take you out on the water. By the way, if you want to learn how to save money on airfares, then click the link in the description below. This guide will teach you how to always get the cheapest flights. Number 7 Crocovado National Park If you're looking for a secluded paradise, teeming with biodiversity, look no further than Crocovado National Park, the largest and most rugged National Park in Costa Rica. Nestled on the remote, Osa Peninsula in southwestern Costa Rica, this park covers a whopping 164 square miles and is home to an array of stunning wildlife, including tapers, antiters, koates, scarlet macaws, venomous snakes, and squirrel monkeys. It's been described by National Geographic as the most biologically intense place on Earth for its dense and diverse jungle. You'll need to make a bit of an effort to get there, but trust us it's worth it. The reward for your journey is deserted beaches, tons of exotic animals, great hiking, and plenty of marine life. The best way to get there is by boat via Drake Bay or Puerto Jimenez, and once you arrive, there are plenty of trails to explore. You can hike through the lush cloud forests and pass gushing waterfalls on the Los Patoes Trek, or take a stroll through groves of purple, heart, and mahogany trees on the San Padreo Trail. For a true Costa Rican safari experience, hit the well-trafficed Cerenna Trail, where you might spot coadis, pumas, wild pigs, and two cans. And when you're ready for a break from the jungle, head to the stunning Pacific Coast for some whale watching, or spend a day on the deserted Carate Beach. Number 6, Cata. This tiny town, located just in our north of Puerto Viejo, is all about relaxation. There's just one bar in town that gets lively, sometimes. But for the most part, people just sit around and read or chill out with some local food after a day of hiking, animal spotting, swimming, or surfing. The region is known for its Afro-Caribbean influences, which you can experience in the food and local culture. But let's not forget about the nearby Cata National Park, a stunning coastal park with rainforests and amazing snorkeling opportunities in the crystal clear turquoise waters. It's a great place for hikers and snorkelers alike, with paths that echo with the calls of howler monkeys and coral reefs, teeming with sea cucumbers and manta rays. Number 5, Sado Chiripo. Sado Chiripo is Costa Rica's highest peak and the centerpiece of the Chiripo National Park, which is known for its incredible biodiversity and a range of medium and high altitude habitats. To reach the summit, hikers can expect to embark on a strenuous two or three-day journey covering about 25 miles and an elevation gain of about 12,500 feet. The hike begins beneath the canopy of the Montane Forest before transitioning to the unique Tala Mancan Paramo, a mountainous grassland home to rare flora and fauna. On a clear day, those who make it to the top are rewarded with breathtaking views of both the Caribbean and Pacific coast. Along the way, hikers may spot stunning ketzelbirds and endangered monkey species. Number 4, Rio Celeste. Located in the Tenoreo volcano National Park, the Rio Celeste is a stunning waterfall known for its bright blue color. The unique hue of the water is caused by a chemical reaction between the minerals in the river and the sunlight, creating a truly otherworldly sight. You can take a hike to the base of the waterfall where you can swim in the crystal clear pool at its base, or you can take a guided tour and learn more about the unique geology of the area. Either way, the Rio Celeste is a must-see destination for any nature lover. Number 3, Santa Teresa. Welcome to Santa Teresa, the laid-back coastal town at the bottom of the Nikoia Peninsula. This surfer paradise is known for its beautiful beaches, excellent surf and relaxed atmosphere. In town, you'll find a mix of hostels, surf shops, yoga studios, and eateries, all set against the backdrop of the Pacific Ocean. Many people end up staying in Santa Teresa for weeks or even months at a time due to the chill vibe and abundance of natural wonders in the area, including white sand beaches, vibrant forests, and warm waves. Real Santa Teresa is a true, intermediate mecca for surfers with regular, rippable, aframe waves throughout the summer. It's also a great spot for beginners and non-surferers alike. In addition to hitting the waves, you can enjoy the town's buzzy nightlife, including international DJs and pumping disco clubs. And if you're feeling adventurous, take a hike into the jungle to discover the Montezuma waterfall and its plunge pools and gushing cataracts. Number 2, Diamante Echo Adventure Park. A variety of different adventure, head to Diamante Echo Adventure Park, where you can spot a variety of animals in their natural habitat, including monkeys, sloths, jaguars, and puma. On-site biologists are there to answer any questions you might have and care for the non-releasable animals. You can also walk through a butterfly enclosure and see if one of these gentle, colorful creatures will land on you. Feeling daring, the park's zip line courses are some of the best in Costa Rica, and the Superman course is a must-do. Off the top of a mountain and zip down one mile towards the ocean. Head first. If you want to spend all day at the park, get a day pass with lunch and explore at your own pace. Prefer to learn about Costa Rican culture and biodiversity? Sign up for the cultural experience tour, where friendly guides will teach you about tico life, food, and culture. While showcasing the local plants, no matter what you choose, Diamante Echo Adventure Park has something for everyone. Number 1, Dira Zoo volcano national park. Nestled in the center of Costa Rica, Irazu volcano is the tallest active volcano in the country, standing at over 11,000 feet. It's accessible via a road that leads to the summit. From the top, you'll be treated to a lunar-like landscape with craters and a pyroclastic cone formed from fragmented volcanic rock. The principal crater is a whopping 3,400 feet in diameter and 1,000 feet deep, while the Diego de la Ia crater has a small, line green lake that sometimes appears red. There are also two small craters, one of which contains a lake. On clear days, you can see both the Pacific and Caribbean from the summit. Irazu volcano national park, established in 1965, is home to this impressive volcano, as well as hot springs, waterfalls, and crater lakes. The park covers 22 square miles and boasts a variety of landscapes, including rainforest, cloud forest, paramo, and lava fields. It's a popular tourist destination and known for its spectacular eruptions, the most recent of which occurred just 20 years ago. So if you're up for a unique adventure and want to see one of Costa Rica's most active volcanoes, add Irazu to your list. Click here for more places to visit in Central America.Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to experience a real-life paradise? Get ready to pack your bags and explore the stunning beauty of Costa Rica. In this video, we'll take you on a thrilling virtual tour of 15 must-visit attractions and destinations that will blow your mind away. From the mesmerizing arena volcano to the breath-taking Manuel Antonio National Park, you won't be able to resist the allure of this beautiful country. So buckle up and join us as we navigate through the lush green forests, sparkling beaches and fascinating wildlife. It's time to get excited and start planning your dream vacation to Costa Rica. Costa Rica is a diverse country with many natural attractions, including beaches, forests, and wildlife. It appeals to a wide range of travelers, from birdwatchers and luxury travelers to surfers and backpackers. While the city of San Jose has great museums and cultural attractions, real treasures are found outside the capital in the forests and coastal towns. The Pacific Coast has many beautiful beaches and towns, with Guana Caste being a particularly popular destination. Inland, the forest-covered mountains offer adventures such as volcanoes, waterfalls, zip lining, and wildlife viewing. The south of the country is the best place to go if you want to see a lot of wildlife. The Caribbean Coast has its own unique cultural vibe and calm waters. To help you plan your trip, we have compiled a list of the top tourist attractions in Costa Rica. Number 15. Manuel Antonio National Park. Manuel Antonio National Park is situated on the outskirts of Manuel Antonio Town and is a must-visit destination in Costa Rica for wildlife enthusiasts. Apart from its stunning soft sand beaches, the park offers an opportunity to spot a variety of animals such as howler monkeys, squirrel monkeys, sloths, white-nosed codamundis, and capuchins. Additionally, you can also see beautiful iridescent butterflies and colorful birds while walking the trails. Although you can explore the park on your own, you can have a more comprehensive experience by joining a guided tour. Guides possess telescopes and tripods, which can enhance your wildlife viewing and photography experience. Another advantage of visiting Manuel Antonio National Park is that you can easily find hotels, restaurants, and retail outlets in the nearby town of Manuel Antonio. The primary hub of activity in the town revolves around the picturesque ocean front beach. The beach attracts both sunbaters and surfers, and surf lessons are available for novices. The restaurants and stores situated across the road on the hillside can get a bit noisy in the evenings. For those seeking a luxurious retreat, Manuel Antonio is home to one of Costa Rica's top beach resorts, making it an ideal spot for an extended stay. Number 14. Arena Volcano. The Arena Volcano. National Park, situated in the rugged Cordillera de Tilaran, is a popular spot for observing volcanoes in the country. The highlight of the park is the Arena Volcano, a cone-shaped mountain that often emits huge ash columns from its crater. From AD 1500 until a massive eruption in 1968, Arena was dormant. The eruption killed 82 people and destroyed two villages. Since then, the volcano has been active, and visitors may witness anything from a cloud of ash to glowing red lava depending on the day or week. The park is renowned for its diverse wildlife with about half of Costa Ricans birds, reptiles, amphibians and mammals represented within its boundaries. The Arena Observatory Lodge was established in 1987 as a private observatory, and is now the only lodge located within Arena Volcano National Park. Situated on the south side of the volcano on a macadamia nut farm, the lodge offers breathtaking views of both the volcano and arena lake. The area is surrounded by a plethora of hiking trails that lead to beautiful waterfalls and old and recent lava flows. Number 13. Monteverde and the Cloud Forests. The Cloud Forests in Monteverde and Santa Elena are a must visit for eco-tourism enthusiasts in Costa Rica. These forests are perfect for nature lovers who want to explore unique plants and wildlife without straying too far from civilization. The moisture provided by the clouds creates a perfect habitat for various animals and plants. Birdwatching is a popular activity here, but you can also spot mammals, reptiles and amphibians. Keep an eye out for colorful frogs and howler monkeys. While jaguars and pumas are more elusive, you might get lucky. Hiking and canopy tours are the ideal ways to experience the forest. The canopy tours include zip lines, bridges and cable cars, adding to the excitement and thrill of your visit. Monteverde and Santa Elena are the primary hubs for tourism in this region, offering a wide range of amenities such as lodging, dining and local shopping outlets, including art galleries. The location of this area is towards the northwest of San Juan and can be reached via a four-hour bus journey. Due to the altitude, it can get chilly here, so it is advisable to carry warm clothing. Number 12. Tamarindo. Tamarindo is an ideal destination for those seeking an energetic beach town to stay in for a while. Situated in Guanaquast's Nikoia Peninsula, Tamarindo has become a popular spot for surfing, beaches and marimaking. Once a peaceful fishing village, the town now offers a diverse selection of eateries and lodgings for tourists. The town is situated along the stunning Tamarindo beach, a broad crescent that stretches for about 1.5 kilometers. The region is renowned for surfing, with various breaks suitable for both seasoned and novice surfers. The most significant waves typically occur in November and December. The Tamarindo region is a great place for sustainable and environmentally friendly activities, such as snorkeling, diving, horseback riding, zip lining and turtle watching during the nesting season. Plyagrande, located nearby, is an essential breeding site for leatherback turtles. From October to March, visitors can witness over 100 turtles nesting and laying eggs overnight. Number 11. Dominical. Dominical is a popular spot for backpackers and surfers in Costa Rica. It's well known for its beautiful beaches, affordable accommodations, laid-back restaurants and bohemian atmosphere. However, if you venture into the surrounding mountains, you'll find high-end resorts, small inns, and luxury rentals, catering to a more affluent crowd. The town has a long stretch of beach that's perfect for lounging and swimming. Local vendors set up tables under the shady trees, selling crafts and other items. The town has undergone some changes in recent years, with paved roads and brick sidewalks, making it a more upscale tourist destination. There are also quieter beaches outside of town, where you can find your own secluded spot. Dominical is an excellent destination for those who wish to witness wildlife in their natural habitat, without having to travel too far from civilization. Dominical is home to a variety of wildlife, including two cans, monkeys, sloths and scarlet macaws, which can be spotted even within the town itself. Additionally, Dominical hosts the annual Envision Festival in late February or early March. This festival is centered around music, arts, wellness, and sustainability, and offers a range of activities such as yoga and other workshops. Number 10. Jocco. Jocco proves to be a great option for those seeking a change of scenery from San Jose, while still enjoying the amenities of a larger town. The beach is vast, delightful, and has a lively atmosphere. The waves are moderate, making it ideal for surfing and swimming. What makes Jocco stand out from other coastal towns along the Pacific is its modern apartments, shops, excellent dining options, hotels, and other conveniences that attract expats and retirees. With its proximity to San Jose less than two hours away, Jocco is an accessible destination for those who want to get away from the city and explore nearby beaches or attractions. Number 9. Wildlife viewing. Costa Rica is a country known for its incredible wildlife, and makes for a unique travel destination. Although it may not have many cultural attractions, the abundant wildlife experiences more than make up for it. Wildlife sightings are frequent, with monkeys, capillons, scarlet macaws, and two cans easily spotted around town. While there are no specific areas for wildlife sightings, visiting parks or taking tours with knowledgeable guides will increase the chances of spotting some of the more elusive species. Generally, you have a higher chance of spotting a diverse range of animals in the southern region of Costa Rica. By taking a guided walking tour through Manuel Antonio National Park, you can expect to see sloths, various types of monkeys, and several other animals. If you're looking to stay at an eco-lodge, you can stay at the OSA Peninsula, or a mountainside resort around Dominican, Uvita, or Ohochal, and you're likely to encounter some wildlife. However, the northern region is not to be underestimated in terms of wildlife. Even if you're staying at downtown Tamarindo, you can easily spot howler monkeys on the trees and overhead wires along the streets. Keep your eyes open, and you're sure to come across some fascinating critters. Number 8. Tortugaro National Park If you're looking for a unique and unconventional experience, Tortugaro National Park on the Caribbean coast is worth a visit. Accessible only by boat or plane, this region is one of the wettest in the country, and offers a different experience than the rest of Costa Rica. The park is a vital nesting ground for the green sea turtle, so the main activity here is turtle watching. Although there are many beaches, the coastal area is not ideal for swimming due to rough surf and strong currents, and sharks are common. Hundreds, and even thousands of green and leatherback turtles can be seen nesting and laying eggs on the beaches at night. Recent conservation initiatives have boosted the number of turtles nesting in the region. From the hiking trails or boat trips along the canals, visitors can spot monkeys, sloths, and kinkajous. Peckeries and tapers are also present, but they are more difficult to see. Freshwater turtles, lizards, snakes, frogs, toads, and other amphibians are also prevalent in the area. Number 7. The National Theater in San Jose, the National Theater in San Jose is a source of pride for Costa Ricans. The coffee barons of the 1890s imposed attacks on coffee exports to fund its construction. Skilled European artisans were brought in to design the building, which was completed in 1897. The facade boasts classical Renaissance columns and statues of dance, music, and fame. The pink marble foyer showcases allegorical figures of comedy and tragedy, as well as murals depicting Costa Ricans life. The most famous of these is Arturo Fontana's painting from Milan, which portrays coffee harvesting and export. Number 6. Irozu Volcano National Park, the Irozu Volcano towering at 3,342 meters is the tallest active volcano in Costa Rica. Its peak boasts a lunar-like terrain with craters, the most prominent of which is the 1,050 meter wide and 300 meter deep principal crater. Additionally, the smaller Diego de la Haya crater, with its occasional red appearance, holds a small lime green lake. Visitors can access these craters, along with two other smaller ones, through marked trails. A pyro-classic cone, formed from fragmented volcanic rock, is also visible in the area. On clear days, the summit offers breathtaking views of both the Pacific and the Caribbean. Number 5. Braulio Carillo National Park Braulio Carillo National Park is a picturesque destination located just a 30-minute drive away from the busy city of San Jose. The park offers a diverse range of features including mountains, waterfalls, canyons, and rainforests. Due to its close proximity to the main gateway of the country, visiting the park is a convenient way to explore Costa Rica's unique flora and fauna. The park boasts a varied terrain, ranging from the top of Barba volcano to the lowlands of the Caribbean. Wildlife enthusiasts can spot fascinating creatures such as jaguars, pumas, tapirs, sloths, and monkeys. Additionally, the park is home to several species of birds, including the quetzal, two cans, and eagles, which are relatively easy to spot and here. Number 4. Rinconde La Vieja National Park The main attraction of the park is the Rinconde La Vieja Volcano. A hike to the summit is one of the most popular activities, which covers a 9-kilometer trail that passes through various ecosystems. The views from the top are stunning, and on a clear day you can even see Nicaragua and the Nacoya Peninsula. In addition to this, there are other trails that lead to waterfalls and hot springs, which are less strenuous. The park is also home to a diverse range of wildlife, including sloths, tapers, monkeys, and large cats such as pumas, jaguars, and oscelots. Number 3. The crocodile bridge on the Tar Coals River The crocodile bridge is an ideal spot to catch a glimpse of American crocodiles. It's located just 25 minutes north of Jaco along Highway 34, making it a convenient and enjoyable stop for all. The bridge spans the Tar Coals River, which is home to a large population of crocodiles. On the north side of the bridge, there's a parking lot, along with some shops, souvenir vendors, and an ice cream stand. The bridge has a pedestrian walkway with railings on the river side and a traffic barrier, ensuring your safety. The crocodiles are easily visible, lounging on the muddy riverbed below. Number 2. La Paz Waterfall Gardens This nature park is a highly recommended must-visit destination. Spanning across 70 acres, it's a sanctuary for various wildlife, such as monkeys, butterflies, and hummingbirds. The park's main attraction is the stunning La Paz Waterfall, where rainwater cascades from the cloud forests, plummeting 37 meters into a pool below. With your admission ticket, you can also explore the Serpentarium, Butterfly Observatory, Jungle Cat Exhibit, and Renarium. Number 1. Kiteboarding in Costa Rica Costa Rica has become a top destination for kiteboarding enthusiasts. Located near the Nicaraguan border, the northwestern coast boasts strong and consistent winds. These winds flow from the Lago Cochibolca in Nicaragua down to the stunning Solenis Bay. To make the most of your kiteboarding experience, be sure to pack your full set of kites, with the 7, 9, and 11 meter sizes getting the most action. However, brace yourself for some gusty conditions. Accommodation options range from basic beachfront bungalows to more luxurious five-star hotels like Dreams Las Marraas.Hi guys, welcome to our video Tamarindo explained and in this video we're going to be explaining Tamarindo just as the title says we're going to be breaking this video down into a couple main sections first we're going to be explaining the geographical layout of Tamarindo. The next we're going to be going over some activities, local cuisine, and different beaches that you might want to surf at because I'm a big surfer and if you are to you like this video and we've been living here for the past five months so we have some good information to share with you. We're going to break Tamarindo kind into three different zones the north, the south, and the inland a little bit. Away from the beach because you know how it's grown it used to be just a little beachfront town and now they're progressing and working inland so there's so much to see once you step off the beach. And then there's another area called Plylon Gusa which we'll mention in this part as well. So most likely the way that you're going to be coming in to town is this main intersection where Vial Real is and you can head down the road down to Tamarindo. So the first area that you're going to see is the Automarcado which is this really nice big fancy grocery supermarket area. So if you want to step outside of the local field that's where you're going to get more of the high-end luxury. Yeah it's kind of like the Bougie American section. I wasn't going to say that but that's what it is. Now the next area kind of going down from there is going to be around which is rock. There's a lot of surf companies right around there that rent boards do lessons because that's where a lot of the main surfing is at right here in the central part of Tamarindo Beach. I like the OG neighborhood of one Tamarindo started. Yes. Surfing into Tamarindo you're going to be near which is rock. Just across the street from which is rock and that whole area off the beach is a lot of hotels and Airbnb's but the thing to be aware of you'll be looking they're all say five minute walk from the beach which is true but the elevation as soon as you get off the beach goes straight up. Now not all of them are up on the hill but a lot of them are up on a big hill. But to hike or get a cab. Yeah that's a cool place there's a lot of around there but it's not really central. It's everything. If you're into diving there's an amazing dive shop here called Tamarindo diving and they took me out on an amazing dive at the Catalina Islands. Definitely worth checking out. Tamarindo diving offers a great experience. They take you out on the boat and it's not just diving it's the whole boat ride out to the Catalina Islands. That's just incredibly beautiful dolphins turtles meeting and the dive was full of wildlife as well. Definitely worth doing if you're into diving or even snarkly. Next is going to be the south part of town so you come in through the north way and you're still driving on the beach front road and you just keep going straight. Eventually you will end up in a roundabout. So essentially it's a dead end there but during that roundabout there are most of the bars are the dance clubs the beachfront restaurants. Tons of cute little boutique for shopping if you're a shopper just start it one in and walk all the way down and around and come back through. So instead of going straight towards the downtown area you'll see this left hand turn. It almost seems like you're supposed to go left and so if you head left now you're on like another main strip where there's a lot of other food courts right along this road there's a couple bars but you'll see another left hand turn. If you go left it's going to bring you to the skate park and now the cool thing about the skate park is actually sitting right behind us is it's a part for kids to play at but it's also where the Saturday morning market is at. If you guys if you're watching our channel for a bit you know that I love a good market and this farmer's market has everything that you would expect right for fruit vegetables handmade crafts, juices, music, kids playing, it's definitely worth a walk if you're here on a Saturday morning. Yeah it's a lively market lots happening so that's really cool. It says 8 to 1 but it's period of 8 so maybe don't stroll into like 8 or 10 or 9 if you want to see all of the vendors already. You go back out to the main street and you keep going up you'll see an intersection that you can go two ways and go straight or right right there on the corner is Villa. Very obvious it's gorgeous it's brand new it's really clean looking yeah there's a lot of there's a great sushi restaurant in there a lot of food options our favorite ice cream places there called pan yosuga is definitely worth checking out they have these wonderfully delicious sugar coated bread cones and the owners are so kind yes and just love to give you sugar yeah yeah so at this intersection now if you were to go straight you're going to be going to the inland a little bit area of town and this kind of covers more than just this little spot but you have the Vindee as soon as you go right past the real nice complex we were just talking about and the Vindee is another small nicer grocery store but the main thing I want to talk about is the bank that's attached to it as well that has the best ATM in town if you need to pull out some money. Eagle blood dollars or colonies there zone it's easy to use and speaking about money here in Tamarindo they will accept US dollar and Costa Rican colonists but if you leave Tamarindo most places don't want to take US money so if you're going to pull money out I would pull out colonists and unlike 15 years ago credit cards and debit cards are when they accepted the conversion rate to the US dollar to colonists is one US dollar to about 550 Costa Rican colonists so everything you're buying here is like in the thousands so a little rule of thumb that makes it easier is that if something is two dollars US it's going to be 1,000 colonists that was a bug we have this terrible bug which is hanging out it's just loving my melee objects oh I'm not so yeah so now working your way past the Vindee you're going to be heading towards the Thursday night market which is really popping yes glide music the sends already down there's strung up lights and a lot of life young old local tourists everybody is there just like the Saturday morning market there are still vendors selling jewelry and food it's just geared more towards nighttime phase and we try to go every Thursday because there's always new music you see it from your face is yeah it's a lot of fun it's definitely worth checking out but it's right here so now heading back to that three-way intersection if you take a ride at that intersection where you start heading south we're going to be going back into the south area of town and there is a bike shop there called handlebar and that is definitely unique place it's a bar it's a small restaurant but primarily they rent bikes and they've got really good deals especially if you're staying for more than a day or two and bikes are great around here you really get anywhere you need to be within this area during the busy season it's hard to drive a car around top because it's so busy there's like no parking so really bikes are a fantastic option and you can ride them on the beach at low tide. As handlebar on the right on the corner is a food truck neighborhood I mean they have I don't know it doesn't or two food trucks is lined up side by side by side it's a party I feel like every night if you walk by so if you were to keep walking down that dirt road forwards to beach from the food truck area that's where all of the boats pretty much pick everybody else up for catarons, fishing, whatever else you might be doing. Okay so now we're at Nordico coffee filming this section right here and see the logo in the background and this is one of our favorite cafes in town and if you're super super into coffee they have the best coffee in town because they roasted here themselves. Olaf is amazing comes for them. So we got to experience play tide cataron. Play tide is a cataron charter company that picks you up on the beach like Matt was talking about they provide everything for the entire day and take you out to sea there's lunch there's drinks paddle boarding, circling it's pretty much a full experience offshore that you can't get anywhere else or any other time. Yeah and if you come to Timerundo you really have to get outside of the bay here because inside the bay the water's pretty but the coastline as soon as you get outside the bay is absolutely stunning it's definitely worth doing especially a sunset tour. And the thing out on time if year it is there's turtles and whales, all the things yeah you can't see just hanging out on the beach. So now we're going to keep heading south down this main road to Langosta. Now on the way to Langosta or really the start of it is one of our favorite beaches in town called Suicos. It's a great place to hang out a good place for beginners to surf. So that beach is unofficially called Suicos and everybody knows where you're going if you say that. Yep. And now if you continue past there there's a lot of different restaurants it's kind of a quieter part not as busy beach down in Langosta it's totally different than the beach here at Timerundo. It's all rocks it's beautiful it's maybe not the best place to go play in the water with your kids but it's an amazing place to just sit and relax and to see an incredibly beautiful view. Okay. Talk about the surfing that's right here in the general area. Right now we are at Suicos. What Suicos is towards Langosta but it's really the best place as a beginner to learn. It's my favorite. Yeah this is where Eric comes because the waves are a bit more relaxed. They don't have as much power which makes it a little bit of a safer, easier ride. Now your next best go to if you're learning is the main Timerundo beach. The waves there do have a little bit more power and the reason why you would think well it's just down the beach a little bit what's the difference. While here in San Marendo we're in a big bay pretty much and a lot of the beaches are protected from the waves. Suicos is like the most protected. Still has little waves though. San Marendo is a little bit more exposed and then you keep going and you get to play a Grande. It's a massive beach but all the waves just come right into the bay and crash a lot bigger a lot more powerful there but the other closer best bet is Langosta at the river mouth and that is a really fun place to surf. There's a lot of bigger waves there. It's stronger. There are rocks out there so it's really advanced surfers only especially at that beach break. Speaking of Langosta I'm a beginner and magician the author on a small day and I came home with stitches. So you advance surfers and have added not so much for the little guys. Okay guys now it's time to talk about restaurants. Foodie time. Yes and there is an unbelievable amount of restaurants here in San Marendo. Guys unbelievable amount. You'll get more than just rice beans, plantains and chicken. There's so much here but I do want traditional cooking. Matt's got the soda for you. And what we didn't know when we first got here was what soda meant and we're driving down the highway looking at all the signs just seeing everywhere soda soda and we thought that Costa Rica just loves soda pop but there's local restaurants. There's two sodas that I really want to talk about that I recommend going to. The first one I'm looking out my phone for the name is soda buffet El Estro and that is that I always say it wrong but Eric owns that it's an amazing soda to go eat at. It's in the north part of town I'll show you on the map right here where it is and the food there is great healthy options and it's a great meal for after serving. The next one is I don't even know the name or her name it's I just call her the red van lady and she's right here on the main street I'll show that on the map as well and if you just walk down it's 3,000 clones for just like it's a go box of amazing I don't you don't even know what it is I just tell her to give me her favorite and I'm never disappointed. Well it switches every day she makes it at home brings it in her van and you get what you get. Yeah it's just a bunch of pots in the back of the van it's amazing it's actually honestly some of the best tasting food that I've had here in San Miranda. If you were coming with a variety of ages let's say grandma grandpa and the kids are coming we have the place for you and it's called the surf shack. It's like an open air restaurant tons of seating and in the very very back as a full playground it's just a really cool place you can actually go and sit and it's right off the beach. So they're located in the downtown area and the type of food that they have is kind of more like burgers messy fries and delicious wings the food there is really good. It's just a really nice place at the end of the day if you want to go hang out. We found out about this restaurant called Dragonfly and how I heard about it was their maize sushi but literally no one we got there a sushi the sushi is just like a small part of their menu. So Dragonfly is definitely on the higher-end side of the restaurants here in town. It's a bit more fine dining although you don't necessarily have to dress crazy fancy to go there. It's just the quality of the food is fine dining quality. Definitely go there to check it out. It's a perfect date night or they're kind of a quieter chill live music vibes. Yeah it's a wonderful place to go and with highly recommend Dragonfly. So Erica has something that's totally in her mouth. Surfing goes in mine. I know I'm not the only one out there so if you're one of those weirdos that pack your tennis shoes on vacation you're welcome because in Tamarono there is like indoor rock climbing at least three gyms with we awaits inside yoga silks all of the things if you have something you love more than likely it is here so bring your shoes and your energy you will get a workout. So guys thank you so much for watching our video Tamarono explains be sure to like and subscribe.This is the Island Opera TV and today we're coming to you from Costa Rico. We're going to show you the best places to visit. Let's do it. That's right Island Hoppers. We're going to explore 12 different areas of Costa Rica. Pretty much everything that you could possibly want to see while you're here. Give a lot of facts so you're definitely going to want to stick around and watch this one. We're going to go to the Caribbean and the Pacific side. First up here we are at Papagayo Peninsula. This here is in Guana Caste which is one of the most prestigious provinces for tourists to visit while in Costa Rica. Now it is in the northwestern part towards Nicaragua and you will notice that many different high-end resorts are here like Planet Hollywood. They also have a high-end and the four seasons. Payo, this here is a look at the Planet Hollywood all-inclusive resort. If you plan to spend a significant amount of time at a resort then all-inclusive is a great bargain. So we got an immersive experience. You got to put on these headphones to go watch the show. So the way the Silent Disco here works is you get to have all the fun with the loud music but you don't keep all the other guests awake. So if you're one of those people who plans to go to sleep early, this kind of Silent Disco works really good because you don't have to hear flaring music while you're trying to sleep. But everyone else who wants the party in dance can still do so. There's also rock and parties at the beach in the daytime so it's a really fun place here at the Planet Hollywood but consider the high-end or four season. Now here we are in a town called Pacifico. This beach is called Cocos Paya or Paya del Cocos. Being that it sits on the Pacific Ocean side of Costa Rica you can expect the beaches to be white sand but not like you will get on the carabin inside. Now if you wanted to arrive here in Papagayo you would land at Liberia Airport to get down to Papagayo is about 35 to 40 minutes by car so keep that mind when choosing to visit here. Now there are several beach areas south of Papagayo like Cocos Beach and several others. This is all going to be many different beaches all the way down to Las Catalinas and then you come into the southern part of Guadacoste. Now at Las Catalinas there are several resorts here at Las Catalinas that may be interesting to you but if you check out Paya Donnita this area right here you can walk around. Paya Portrero it's more of a relaxing vibe than you're going to get in other places across Costa Rica so consider this whole area of Guadacoste it's really a popular place with foreigners. Another area that I would suggest checking out is Paya Flamingo so you've got lots of options here in this area. Now we're actually headed south a bit we're going to Tamarindo the nickname for Tamarindo is Tamaringo, no pun intended hopefully no one gets offended by that it's just a fun nickname that the locals have given to Tamarindo because there are so many foreigners here. So now here we are at Paya Lungasta this is actually on the other side of Tamarindo Beach and let me flip the camera around here you can see lots of beach action over here a lot less people they've got some condos over here and some resort style living oxidantals over here see they got professional massage but trees really a beautiful place here. So I just showed you Paya Lungasta which is a lot more relaxed now we're just going to walk around Tamarindo here this is where most of the people hang out do beach activities go out on sunset cruises go out and do some tours around the surrounding beaches just a nice area to hang out so this is a look at the beach on Tamarindo. If you do surfing or if you ever wanted to learn how to do surfing this is probably where you want to go there's a couple places in Costa Rica that are special for surfing the other one being Haco but Tamarindo is a great place to learn. Alright so from Tamarindo we're actually going to go even further this time we're headed to the Nacoya Peninsula check out some beaches and some of the popular towns. Now I'm in Paya Ostonia. Big old beach here here we are now at the beaches of Nassara. They say Nassara is like how Tamarindo was 10 to 15 years ago so it's a bit harder to get to because it's a bit further south about an hour away but people are starting to migrate down here so if you're looking for something a little bit more tame than Tamarindo you might just like the area around Nassara. They've got lots of beaches here in this whole region. We're even going to go further south to Samara so this whole area right here is some of the most up and coming parts of Costa Rica. Now here we are in Samara is a beautiful town in the northern part of Nacoya. Now if you ask me which one I prefer more Nassara or Samara I'm going to go with Samara just because there's so much more in the area that I really like also if you go a little bit further south you will see wild parrots just flying around and I really enjoy being in a place like that. I stayed at a Marriott down there. That Kuntai Sleeta and that was just awesome so that was about 30 minutes south of Samara. Lots of dirt rogues out of here so it's not as developed and again if you wanted to actually get here the best airport to arrive into is going to be Liberia. If you came in from San Jose it would probably take you three or four hours. They do have smaller commuter regional airports but I would say still Liberia is probably your best bet. I actually rented a car at the Liberia Airport and then I was just driving all across Nacoya and around the Punteranus area. Now here we are south of Samara this is Playa Esleeta. So like I said I stayed at the Marriott here this was the Punta Esleeta Marriott if you wanted to also look for this one. Really remote out here in the jungles. Howler monkeys were here, wild parrots. Really a great experience so check this one out. Now the next morning what I ended up doing was taking the dirt road all the way down to Santa Teresa and I'm going to show you what I came across while doing this like Playa Coyote and so many others. Now the interesting thing about this is there is some river crossings that can be a bit challenging thankfully there wasn't anything too strong but keep that in mind if and when it's rainy season but you can see they were having a Caballero festival at Playa Coyote. Well after quite a crazy ride about two and a half and three hours from Samara or Esleeta has arrived in Playa Hermosa just outside of Santa Teresa. Good morning from Santa Teresa Beach the surfing Caballero Costa Rica. Yeah, Santa Teresa is another one of those places to do surfing. There's also some places on the Caribbean side. Well after a long drive I have arrived. Nice hotel here. I'm trying to get the AC to work correctly though. I had to wash my feet so I've already kind of been here for about half an hour. I was like you know what I better make a video before I really settle in. This little patio here. Cool. All right Santa Teresa Beach. Sunsets, surfing, waterfalls, and some really unique nighttime vibes you'll find here in the jungles around Santa Teresa. Now remember the Nucoya Peninsula is one of the blue zones in the world. There's only five in Nucoya is one of them. That's a place where people live to be 100 years or older. More often than other places around the world. So this is my breakfast. This is a traditional American breakfast I would say. Santa Teresa is known for its Bohemian vibe so you will see a lot of people from Europe hanging out here. It's become a popular place with people from over there. They really seem to migrate and gravitate towards Santa Teresa. Oh half of the town here in Santa Teresa is uh to Roe-Gstill. So I'm going to head over towards the other part of the Nucoya and Southmark which is going to be like Montezuma. But I wanted to stop here at the beach in the morning and just show you what San Teresa looks like in the mornings. Another way to get around the dirt roads here in Santa Teresa and the southern part of Nucoya is one of these all-terrain vehicles side by side. So I would suggest considering getting one of these because you know the dirt roads it handles better. It's a little bit more equipped for this region. But once you go down from Santa Teresa to Montezuma takes around 35 minutes maybe an hour just depending on traffic. But yeah I would definitely recommend going down here to Montezuma. From here you can also access a lot of places in the Gulfo right there including Esla Tortuga. There also have a national park down here called Cabo Blanca which will be showing you right now. You also have this hanging canopy bridge where they have several different waterfalls. Like I said this Montezuma area really is impressive. And if you ask me which one I prefer Santa Teresa or Montezuma I'm going to say Santa Teresa has more infrastructure, probably better hotels. But Montezuma just the vibes down here are really amazing. So definitely worth checking out. It's really close to Santa Teresa if you just want to do a day trip down here. By the way if you guys are enjoying this video consider subscribing to the channel liking the video as we continue to show you Costa Rica. This is a really remote part of Costa Rica. I mean don't get me wrong there's so many different remote parts of Costa Rica where you can really find peace and relaxation along the coastline. But Montezuma is one of those places where you can really chill out and relax and find eco resorts just totally out there off grid immersed with the locals still at a hotel. Also down here in Montezuma they do have turtle releases where they hatch the turtles and then they release the little babies out into the ocean. That's fun. That happens around sunset. You'll have to check if they're going to be doing that when you're there. I don't know the exact schedule I think it varies. Also they have a bit more nightlife that I like down here in Montezuma. It might not be for everyone but for me it was better. Also they had a lot of lobster and seafood fresh catches here that I didn't see in Santa Teresa. Yeah so what we're going to do now is we're actually going to show you around the Cabo Blanco National Park area. Here in Cabo Blanco they have a hike. Make sure you get the hours right because they close a bit early. They have different openings and stuff so make sure you pay attention to that before coming all the way down here. But when you're in Cabo Blanco be ready to see lots of different wildlife you never know what you'll see out here. Lots of howler monkeys though. Now like I said there is a really cool island that's nearby Montezuma and you can take a high boat tour from here which takes about 45 minutes to get to Tortuga Island and I would say this is probably the most beautiful island in Costa Rica right here at the tip of the Nikoia Peninsula. So definitely add this to your list of things to do when in Santa Teresa or Montezuma. Well one thing I will say about this part of the Nikoia on the south there's a very nice paved road. I haven't seen any potholes on this. The paved road in between Santa Teresa and Montezuma had a lot of potholes but once you get past Montezuma it seems like the road has a lot smoother ride. This here is called Bellina Bay or Bahuia Bellina. Bellina in Spanish is well. It's a big beach. The faces towards Haco you can see Haco out over there. Let's put the rain in this. It's called Tambor. This is where you can drive your car onto the actual boat. It's beautiful years here. It's got hit at a checkpoint. Please pull me over and search my car for no reason other than the fact that I was driving on the road. So I was surprised about that because I hadn't seen that in Costa Rica before. Yeah they just pulled me over to the side, searched my entire car looking for something. I'm nothing but I was like what is going on here because there was no probable cost to stop me other than the fact that I was driving at the car. I had my license, my passport and everything. So there you go. Here we are going across Tempiaza, a real Colorado. You see the big bridge here? All right on the way to Monteverde here we're off highway one at hand. We're going through a town called Las Wundas and this is about an hour and a half away from La Taberre de La Wundas. We are now at the top of the mountains on our way to Monteverde. Very high up here in lots of wind but it's much cooler up here than down below. Wow. Looking down towards the Gulfo of Nacoya. Look at that. Wow beautiful. Yes so here we are. With a great view this mirador this lookout point. Actually someone's building a house here but you can see the Gulf of Nacoya down there. Lots of fires going on because here in January it's actually considered their summer because winter starts from May until November so it's a dry season. Lots of fires going down there. Well it's about lunchtime so we're going to stop at Cafe Orizante. Let's see what they got going on in here. Let's put this out on right here. All right this is called the A-frame house here. Put it upstairs. There's two bedroom. It's perfect. And then you step outside you've got a jacuzzi which I'll be firing up here in a minute. And while in Monteverde what I ended up doing was a nighttime jungle safari hike. Doing a night walk this is called the Kinkajau. Nocturnal night walk starting at 5.30. It's $33 a person. Let's go see what's in here. Right before the night walk we got a rainbow. Look at that. And walking gave me a flashlight. So while I was out here I did see a Kinkajau. I also saw a two can that was sleeping. Several other birds of paradise animals that you would see out here. Also a frog and a little snake along with a tarantula. So you never know what kind of creatures are out here but you'll definitely see some animals. So here we are at the Salvatore Adventure Park where they have the canopy walk. They also have the swath sanctuary and butterfly garden. We're going to go check out some of the activities here. Let's go inside. So the price to visit the sloth sanctuary alone is going to be $39 but if you want it to see the butterfly garden and some of the other activities that they have here you can bundle them together. It just depends what you want to see. So if you want to see sloth sanctuary and butterfly garden it's $79 per person for a 90-minute tour. In Spanish a butterfly is called the Mariposa in case you didn't know that now you do but here they actually do have cocoons although the butterflies here cannot actually hatch because it's illegal in Costa Rica to actually have the hatchery as well as the butterflies in the same place. So they have to actually import the butterflies and then they have to get rid of these cocoons. They can't actually hatch the caterpillar into a butterfly here at this sanctuary. Interesting fact, right? So after you actually go into the butterfly sanctuary then you can go check out the sloths. I actually really enjoyed seeing all these sloths in case you're wondering where they get the sloths. Well they're usually animals that have been injured in the wild. Maybe they've been injured by a car, a motorbike or by another animal. Some of them are blind. So you know you never know what kind of accident happened to one of these sloths but that's why they're here and they can't be released back into the wild and the reason I bring this up is because people do want to know that. Another thing that's popular doing Monteverde is these hanging bridge hikes. Also they have a frog zoo or a frog exhibit that you can check out. So many different activities in Monteverde but the big thing is it's just a very beautiful cloud forest here. Now from Monteverde I'm actually headed to La Fortuna and along the way here you can see they've got these giant windmills which are covered in appears to be some algae or moss. Maybe mold but yeah just a freeze into La Fortuna now. It's been raining so I couldn't really film anything but the rain has kind of slowed down a bit as I've gotten towards La Fortuna going away from the coast even more now but it's very beautiful out here. So as you can see I'm at Lake Earnall now very windy here they have winds certainly as you would have had in the wild. It's like a lot of levels flow because it's dry season. That drive from Monteverde to La Fortuna takes about two and a half hours so as you can see on this route so far we've gone from Liberia we landed went to Papagayo then went down to Nacoya then crossed over from Nacoya to Monteverde and now we're into La Fortuna so you guys are getting an idea of how this route would go. Now even though it was very dry in Guanaquaste in particular around Nacoya and Papagayo where it was dry season up here it was raining pretty much off and on all days. Costa Rica has a lot of micro climates. Well we're officially very close to Earnall. La Fortuna is known for Ego Tremales which is the hot spring. Excuse me, excuse me, human coming through. Now this particular hot spring hotel was called Cacoro Mineral Springs and the hotel Villa was around 125 dollars per night. Now there are several different Ego Tremales hot spring areas that you can hang out. Not all of them are hotels and you can actually pay the entrance fee to go see some of these beautiful ones that are world famous. So here I am now at Ego Tremales beautiful clear hot spring. Now at Columbus hot springs. But while here in La Fortuna you can also do whitewater rafting and canoeing which is very popular to a chocolate farm. They have the sloths here as well. So doing a hike up Earnall volcano or doing a tour around there plus to do even the lake. Now let's just do a quick recap of where we're at in this journey. So I would say here in La Fortuna plan for about two to three days. Monta Verde you could do it in 24 hours but I would suggest 48 hours. Nacoya I would say spend around five days that begins in Nosara and then if you wanted to do Papagayo I would say two to three days there should be fine. So as you can see just to do this route you're probably going to need about 10 to 14 days. However if you're on a time crunch and all you want to see is a lot of places you can really do about one to two days in each one of these places and you don't have to really relax. You can move pretty quickly and you could probably do this trip in about seven days. And the good news is from La Fortuna you can get to Liberia's airport in about three hours or you could get to San Jose's airport in about three hours. So either way you're close to both main airports. Well I'm leaving La Fortuna and I'm actually headed towards San Jose but in between there is going to be a place called Poaz volcano which is actually where I'm looking to stop at the lookout point. So we'll see if I can get there on time. And now we're climbing the mountain. This is the mountain to get to San Jose. Poaz volcanoes nearby so they'll take 25 kilometers which is going to take a run in an hour. Oh wow. Wow. Look at that. It looks like we're almost to the top and there was clouds on the way up but once you get to the top it's above the clouds. That's cool. Basically at the top of the mountain here. For six kilometers I'll drive this road. This is a national park. Cool. It's gently up here. There's some big mountains. Well I came all the way from La Fortuna to Poaz volcano and I got to night because I don't have a reservation. So if Poaz volcano was something you wanted to see you need a reservation. The guy said that it probably isn't the best time anyway because it's cloudy but I'm assuming it's always cloudy over here. So not a very good situation for me. I came all the way over here for this. That's all good. Either way once you cross over the mountain where Poaz is and other volcanoes you end up looking down towards San Jose. So you've crossed the ridge. The other side is La Fortuna and on this side we have San Jose and the valley. All right we'll hold our officially headed down the mountain here. Quickly losing altitude. Now from San Jose here. Now once you get to San Jose obviously you're in the capital so it's going to be the metropolis of the Costa Rican country. Here you're going to find lots of traffic and it's not so easy to drive a rental car around San Jose as at least not as easy as it is going around the countryside. So keep that in mind. There is a central area to San Jose and then if you stay outside of there you're in Aluela which is one of the more popular areas for hotels. So I would say plan for about 24 hours in San Jose no matter what. Now just some population statistics to share with you. The city of San Jose has around 350,000 but if you include the metro area of San Jose it's around 2.5 million. All of Costa Rica has around 5.1 million people here. So it's a pretty small country in terms of size and also in terms of population although with so many different areas to explore Costa Rica feels a lot bigger even though it's very condensed. Now the second biggest city in Costa Rica is called Cartago. We're actually not going to go there but it's about an hour drive away from San Jose and it's south. Now from San Jose you either have a choice. You can go towards the Caribbean side or you can go towards the Pacific side. In this case what we're actually going to do is we're going to go towards Haco very briefly stop through there and that's where we're going to go towards Manuel Antonio right after that. But before we do that I'm going to give you a little tour of the Hilton double tree here in San Jose in case you're looking for a hotel. The prices do vary depending on supply and demand. You could get it for around $220 a night but this is what it looks like nice resort right here in San Jose. But yeah let's head down towards Haco which is about an hour and a half away here they're going to have a casino. It's actually one of the main party towns I don't spend too much time here but if you wanted to stop by for lunch that would be great although some people spend their whole time in Costa Rica in Haco. Now about an hour north of Haco there is some interesting wildlife activities you can do like going out on a crocodile tour because as you know they do have big crocodiles here and one of the places you can go is to Rio Tarcoles so they have boat trips you can do right here and I would say this is about 35 to 40 minutes north of Haco they also have the famous crocodile bridge. All right so from Haco we're going to go south this time we're in Manuel Antonio. Now Manuel Antonio is known as probably the premier place for wildlife spotting you're going to have three different types of monkeys here also you'll see several different types of sloths so there is two species of sloths there are wild here there's the tuto and the three-toed slot although I think here in Manuel Antonio you only see one of those because one is in Monteverde which is different than the one that's in the lower lands so take that into consideration but in Manuel Antonio it's really an amazing place and people like to go to that airplane restaurant. And now if you go south a bit from Manuel Antonio you come to Uvita which is known as the Wales Tale because it's a rock formation that extends out into the ocean in the shape of a whale but the interesting thing is they actually do get a lot of whales that are down here and that's why they call it the Bellina so Bellina in Spanish means whale and that's why they call it that but it's Bellina State Park National Park area so definitely do explore around Uvita they also have these waterfalls out here nice hotel resorts we did glamping while we were here I do recommend doing some glamping in Costa Rica just because it's more of an immersive experience in the jungle. And here is a look at the Bellina State Park that you go out to it is an emission fee that does have to be paid per car or per person that price varies you would want to look that up online before you go there but it's not a lot it's just something you have to pay in order to access and this is a look at Casado which is a traditional Costa Rican dish usually served for lunch or dinner but the word Casado translates to married basically marrying a variety of different foods includes rice also plantains some form of egg or a meat and yeah that's Casado. Here in Dominicol you can see we had parrots good close up with the parrots you can hear them from a distance now from the Pacific side we're going to explore a little bit around the Caribbean side we didn't have much time to explore Caribbean because it's on the other side but it doesn't mean that it's not worth being explored this here is Porto Viejo the interesting thing if you go a little bit further south you're in Bocoste, El Toro above here is going to be a place like Cauita and then the main city on the Caribbean is Lomon most people suggest just passing through there if you wanted to go a little bit further north of here you would come to a place that's called Tortuga National Park or Tortugero I should say and they say it's very beautiful there so lots to see on the Caribbean side here so to do a full trip like this in Costa Rica where you actually include the actual Caribbean you're looking at around two weeks minimum and that's moving quite quickly if you want it to actually chill in places like La Fortuna maybe Manuel Antonio or even Nicoia for a little bit longer then you're looking at around three weeks to possibly a month the good news is you're going to get a long-term visa I believe it's 180 days don't quote me on that because the writing in the passport wasn't very clear but it looked like a 180 and I looked online and it said 180 so you will have enough time the trick here is getting the rental car and doing it alone like this if you did a tour it might be a lot more efficient I guess you could say but I don't know if it's going to be your speed especially if you're with a family but if you're with a family rental car is probably the best way to go so as you can see the Caribbean side is a little bit different vibe they've got these two tubes they don't have those on the Pacific side at least not that I saw but either way really an awesome country as you can see I highly recommend Costa Rica try to at least do seven to ten days your first time if you really want to do this tour and see it as much as we did this is almost everything the only thing we didn't include was Corcovado in the south of the Pacific and Ketsal in the middle of the country as well as some of the other volcanoes but we really included most of the main things that you would need to see and if you enjoyed this one you can also watch our Panama City Panama video as well as our Belize video so we'll see you on those nextOh my God, about five minutes before this video was supposed to go live. I remembered that I forgot a very important tip and I couldn't live with myself unless I told you, here it is, man. Rip tides, rip tides are real. Very dangerous. They kill many tourists every year. There's not always life cards on the beach. Matter of fact, last year, not my best friend, but a friend here in the opportunity, his wife, got cotton rip tide and she died. It is no joke here. So basically, if you can't swim back in because the ocean is pushing you out, you're probably cotton rip tide. You want to go parallel to the beach either flow parallel or out a little bit or swim parallel until you get out of the rip tide so you can come in. You not fight it. You won't be able to get in. So they're serious. Oh, I remember that. All right, let's start the best travel tips for Costa Rica now. All right, guys, you come into Costa Rica vacation in Costa Rica and it's coming up and you've been so busy, busy, you haven't had time to research. Your first Costa Rica is beautiful and it is, but you don't know, you don't know the culture you have in here. You don't know the travel tips that do and that don't. This video is for you. After this video is done, you will be ready to visit Costa Rica stress free. This video is going to save you frustration, probably a little money and you won't have to watch any other video on the subject. So when you get off the plane, you'll know what to expect and all of that is a minute. Hey, guys, I'm Michael Allen for travelcustreakinado.com. Travelcustreakinado.com. The travel agency is a good or travelcustreakinado.com. Feel out the four minute form. You need to be that much close to vacation. A lifetime will like you. I have my best friends who live in Costa Rica who know Costa Rica totally hooking up your Costa Rica vacation. If you haven't subscribed, please do and even if you're never going to watch another Costa Rica video again, help them brother out. Hit the subscribe button. But if you do want to see videos as we put them up, we talk about a lot of things here. A lot of things, a lot of interviews living here, traveling here, all kinds of stuff. Hit the notification bell. Alright, get out your coffee. Get out your coffee. Get out your no pad. We're ready to go. There's no rhyme or reason. There's no sequence. I don't, these are random. So it's not from the best to the worst or any of that. So when you think of maybe in the middle, you're going live. This is boring. Keep watching. It gets better. And you need to know this stuff. Right, let's first talk about packing real quick. You're packing a Costa Rica man. You know, this is species. This is fun time pack light. What's that mean? I don't know. You know what it means pack light for you unless you're coming down here for something super, super specific and you need certain things pack light. Matter of fact, underdress. You don't want to draw attention to yourself down here anyway and leave the jewelry at home. If you're going to be in San Jose area in social value, you might want to pack a little light coat, might get a little chilly depending on the time of the year. But other than that, you're kind of bumping it around for the most part. And again, in Western San Jose, maybe you're going to a club or something. You might have to wear that button down, sure. But let's just think underdressing a little bit, all right. We're not dressing to impress. All right, you're going to want to upload the whatsapp. The whatsapp and ways. Ways is the directional stuff. You know, it's like Google Maps, but better for down here. It works very good down here. Matter of fact, sometimes I'll question ways when they say, take a left, you know what take a left here. Well, that's to be to tell me that because there's some big construction going on up the road. I've listened to him before and I go, burnt. So, ways works, wonders down here. So you want to download that. Whatsapp is the thing down here. Everybody's on Whatsapp. Every business, every restaurant, every bar, every tour. Everybody, that's how you're going to communicate down here. Get Whatsapp. Because I don't, I haven't been in the States in 17 years, but I don't think it's a thing really in the United States, but it is a thing here. Whatsapp, download it. All right, when you're planning your vacation or you're ever planning it, tell them, don't to, don't try to see everything. You can't. Now, I can't remember if it's West Virginia or Virginia, but let's just say Costa Rica is kind of small, 5 million people. On the map, you're like, I know we could go here, just take a date. No, you can't. You're talking mountains and sometimes bad roads. You're talking five hours to go anywhere. And if you put too many locations in your life, you will be seeing Costa Rica from the window of your car and you will not find an enjoyable experience. So choose accordingly. Do not go, hey, let's go to the Caribbean side. No, honey, I want to do Tamerindo too and Chris Cross the country. It's not going to work. Don't do it. Don't do it. All right, so not too much. The best way to travel Costa Rica, in my opinion, there's other ways, but I think ATM in your way around the country is best. Forget the lines of the bank to exchange your money. You don't need to do that. You can just use your card and just say, charge it with Cologne. It's now Y Cologne, because the exchange rate is in there. It's not to your favor. So even if you're using dollars, if you're using dollars, you're going to get a bad exchange rate and you're going to get kind of not cheated, but in some plays, yes, cheated. So ATM, your money, the biggest important thing you want to understand about ATM, always use the ATM in the location you are. Don't go, well, we'll just wait until we get down there. Well guess what? Down there may not have an ATM that's working or there's only one and it's not close to you. So trust me on this, do your ATM when you think about it in the place you are and not the place you're going to. And remember Cologne's, Cologne's, Cologne's, yep, bring a little cash. That's fine. Bring a little cash. But ATM your way around, that better. Oh, yeah. And you obviously alert your bank. Alert your bank. You're going to be using your card. You don't want to have that issue. That kind of sucks. You got to call somebody up and go, you know, please let this transaction go. So make sure you get a hold of your bank. All right, this is the only promotional thing I'm going to be doing on this video, but I think it's hugely important. Ranking a car. If you have done any bit of research on Coastry, you should know that renting a car scams are real. It happened to yours truly, if ten years ago. Cologne's at a scam, Michael, because the price isn't the price, they weren't transparent. And when you go pick up your car, there's a lot more little fees that you didn't know about. The deposit is bigger. This can, you can start up your vacation on a charge with your, like, a deposit. It might be $2,000 for the rental car. And you know what, you go in there? You know they're scamming. They know they're scamming. They know that you know that they're scamming. And you can't do anything about it. What are you going to do? Walk out. You're going to a foreign country. What are you going to do? You're going to get the cars. So I can save you from that. Go to TravelCostaReacondow.com. Scroll down, fill out the quick, car rental form. You will get the car you asked for. The price will be transparent. The price is the price. When you go to pick it up, that's the price. Service is good. And they're newer cars. All right. You can always go on the internet. You can find a cheaper rental car. Always. Always keep a cheap or something. But trust me on this, trust me on this. You do not want to learn this the hard way. And anybody that watches this video that has done the rental car, you know, service down here. They will tell you, you know, that you've got to be careful. So I can help you out. I got I I know a couple guys that took me a long time to find honest people, you know. So these people are going to hook you up and you don't get to worry about it totally stress-free. All right, I want to talk a little bit, a little bit about high season. I'm like, high season versus low season. Now everybody talks about high season. And everybody seems to know it's around, starts around with, say, the middle of November and it goes to like the end of March. It's during Christmas and New Year's. And that's when tourist season is really, you know, clicking along in Costa Rica. That's when everybody comes. That's when the prices are at their highest, all right? Now the high season, it's almost like the marketing of Costa Rica and high season, they almost, they're almost a victim of their own marketing because there are other types of the year are good in Costa Rica too. People when they think of, when I say rainy season, what do you think of? You, you're thinking, oh my God, there's monsoon, but every day, okay, it's raining all the time. Can't go to Costa Rica during that time. That would be dumb. Let's go to their high season. Well, okay, so here's how it goes. First of all, you have to know that Costa Rica has a lot of different microclimates, all right? Different weather patterns. So this whole is just this way from November to March is a misnomer, yes, in a lot of places it is. That is the, that is the high season where there's not too much rain in a large part of the country, but guess what? I didn't look a lot for too much. We're actually on an opposite weather pattern where we actually get more rain during that time. All right, but anyway, so the thing about coming during, like let's say the rainy season is you are going to say quite a bit of money just because there's not as many people. And that's the other thing, there's not gonna be as many people on the beach, not so many people on that tour. So if you're kind of like me and you just don't want to see tourists, you know, every two feet wherever you go, rainy season might be for you. So the other thing about, let's say the rainy season, let's see, I got a lot of notes on this guy, sorry. So the transactions happen around April. So supposedly the dry season starts turning into the rainy season in April and then November it starts going from the rainy season to the dry season. And like I said before, and September, and September and October are supposedly like the, like let's say the winter months here, the rainiest of seasons here. But guess what? That's true in like a large part of the Costa Rica, let's say for instance the Pacific side, but if you go to the Caribbean side down in Porta Viejo, it's actually some of the best weather during that time. And the reason I know that is because a lot of the opportunity is on the same weather pattern as Porta Viejo and our weather tends to be good in those months too, when supposedly it's supposed to be bad. All right, so a couple of things also with the rain, the supposed rainy season, September, October is turtle season, man, if you've never been around the turtles when they're, you know, coming up to do their nests and such, man, hundreds and thousands, I think they call it a, I figure it, a rebook, I can't say the word, but it's pretty fascinating to watch. The nests during September, October, the humpback whales or Al during August, September, October, they're kind of around all year, but they're mostly during that time. I don't know if it's a mating thing or whatever, but the humpback whales is the August, September, October. Now, if the thing about coming during rainy season or you're gonna be okay, awareness of different weather systems, like if you know that the Caribbean side is good in September, October, that's good to know. You also need to know your travel route because you could be going from like, let's say a Caribbean side, two more rainy, you know, part of the country at that time, and you kind of want to know what you're, you know, you're getting into, so you're gonna want to pay attention to your travel route. You're also gonna want proper transportation, which is pretty much a four wheel drive for various reasons. You could come across, you really could come across, watch out rows and the landslides that is a thing here, and maybe there's an accident where you have to just go off, a little bit off the road until like maybe, you know, the wet grass and just a four wheel drive is gonna work a much better for you in that kind of situation. If you're in a rainy part of Costa Rica during that time, you probably want to stay, and you're watching the weather and it's raining a lot, but you just stay close to your accommodations, you know, so you don't have to venture out too far. All I'm gonna say is rainy season is beautiful here. It's freaking beautiful. So I don't know how this rainy season got to be like, don't go during rainy season. And the other thing is, it's not raining all day normally. It's usually beautiful in the morning. It's beautiful in the early afternoon. You can do your tours and go to national parks early. Yes, it might start raining around four. Yes. So again, rainy season, supposed rainy season, just remember, we're gonna save a lot of money going during that time and a lot less people, but you do gotta kinda do your homework on that one to make sure you know what's going on as it's in regards to the weather. Oh, and I don't recommend you driving in the dark. All right, don't drive, it gets dark around five. Well, almost five, 30 exactly. Every day here, 365 days a year, you do not wanna be driving Costa Rica in the dark. You just don't. I've got those videos. All right, okay, now you landed in Costa Rica. One of the first things you're gonna wanna do is you're going to wanna take a picture of your passport, the information page, but also the stamped end page. When they stamped you in, that's on another page. Take a picture of that as well. You might want to email important documents to yourself, like that stamped end page. You never know, some could happen to your phone, could lose your passport or kind of little things. So you want various other methods to be able to have that information available if you have to. Email, I would also encourage you to, if you could find a place, which you could, just to make a hard copy of your passport and again, the stamped end page can be very helpful. You don't wanna carry around your passport normally. The only place you have to have your passport is in the bank. Even the policeman have to accept a copy of your passport with the stamped end page. So the bank's the only one that you have to use, your hard copy of your passport everywhere else, you can use copies. So when you're going out on your tour, lock your stuff up in your hotel in like a log box. Don't be carrying that stuff around. All right, so. You also want to, one of the first things you want to do, you want to make sure you have internet when you're traveling around Costa Rica. So you're going to want to get a chip in your unlocked phone, all right? The phone company is down here. I've actually got videos on this as well. You're gonna hit a place called Colby or Liberty, Movie Star or Collateral, okay? They'll give you a chip and then you're gonna have the internet and do your little WhatsApp stuff and all that. It's gonna be very beneficial. You want internet as you're traveling around. It's not always gonna be working. We make it when you're up in the mountains or whatever. But all in all, it's gonna be a good, I don't know, what is it? $10 is not very much to get the chip. So, but yeah, your phone has to be unlocked. All right, let's talk about crime real quick. It used to be a thing. People used to think there were robbers around every corner in Costa Rica. It used to hate that people used to ask me. Is Costa Rica safe? Yeah, well, is Chicago? Is Chicago safe? I don't know. It's really safe. You're most of crime that would happen to you as a tourist is a crime of opportunity. The odds of you having a violent crime perpetrated against you is almost nil and none. I guess it can happen. Of course it can happen. Does it happen in Chicago? Yeah, New York City. Yes, all right. But by and large, it's crimes of opportunity, which basically means you left your laptop on in your rental car. Or you left your cash out in your hotel room, little things like that. So, common sense is gonna rule the day on that as far as crime. You want to keep it. You're not gonna be wearing your jewelry. Don't be wearing your, you don't need to bring your diamonds here instead of before jewelry. Keep it at home. If you're gonna carry around what you're going out, front pocket for your wallet. Don't carry a whole lot of money. You're gonna be dressing down like I said. Keep your important documents and stuff in your hotel room locked. All right, so if you just do a little common sense, you know, you are not gonna give ripped off. Almost every sad story you hear about crime with. Like, they took my money or my passport. I don't want to say that I'm gonna blame the victim. I'm just saying the victim probably could have done some shit to save themselves from that. Let's just go with that. So, again, common sense is gonna rule the day. I used to bag on San Jose all the time. Don't go to San Jose. Get out of San Jose as quick as you can. We know what. All right, all right. I'm getting older and nicer. Don't necessarily skip San Jose. You know, maybe you want to go to the clubs one night. Maybe you want to go dancing. There's they have walking tours there. There's a place called Barrio Mn, which is way cool. It's all the old coffee beer and mansions that have been converted into restaurants. There's a nice restaurant down there. I'm not saying I would spend a bunch of nights down there personally, but you know, if you're there a night or two, you're gonna be all right. It's kind of a cultural experience as well. So, you don't necessarily have, and then they got a little tour of section down there where you can blow your money on overpriced clothing and stuff and restaurants and little casinos around. And it's a really great place to do some people watching. So, if you're stuck in San Jose, take advantage of that day or two. So, you're not necessarily in a bad situation. You know, San Jose is okay. All right. All right, tipping, tipping, tipping, tipping. Don't feel obligated to tip, all right? I've said it a million times. The service here usually is mediocre, best in most restaurants in bars. Sorry, it just is. Yes, you can find good service sometimes. It's not consistent. And they add 10% to your bill anyway. It's called a service charge that goes to your waiter. And that's usually about all they usually should be getting at the most is 10%. That's not always on the bill. Not always on the bill, but mostly it's on the bill. So, you get to have a 13% sales tax and you got to have a 10% service charge, all right? So, that's kind of their tip. Obviously, you can get more. And you know what, you're not even gonna really listen to me. You people from the United States. You're gonna feel so bad. Do we tip in? I don't know. I don't know. Should we tip my English and tip? I mean, we got a tip. Yeah, but he wasn't that good. Yeah, we got to give, I know how it goes. You're probably going to tip him anyway, but that you don't have to. It's on. It's 10% is on there. But again, do what you want to do. Taxi drivers never tip them. Ah, it deserves a new thing. They deserve their own ring and hell if you ask me. It's a never tip a taxi driver. But you should probably tip a private driver, especially if he's stopping his car to show you, so you can take the picture of the sloth. And I would say the guides that do your tours have made deserve a tip. So, yes, tip those people. And just keep in mind, Ticos, that's what they called themselves down here, Ticos, don't even tip each other. I mean, what's that tell you? All right, so, but just don't feel obligated. I guess that's my major point of that. Hey guys, prostitution is legal here. People don't like me saying that. You're just promoting against women. I provide information for people traveling down here. I don't make the rules. I don't make the laws. If you want to change the laws, that's not me. You gotta go to somebody else. prostitution is legal. But I'm assuming, excuse me, that most people that want to go to prostitution around, they're probably done before. And I probably don't need to tell you too much. Obviously, you play at your own risk. All right. And that's all I'm going to say about that. We made a prostitution video I think about 10 years ago. I just got hundreds of thousands of views, I think. You won't recognize me. But it's got all, if you want to know about this particular subject, I'm going to put the link in the description of this video. And you can go see where it looked like a long time ago and get all the information on this subject that you want. Drugs. I'm not promoting drug use. I'm not promoting drug use, all right? So, but again, informing. When you're talking about places like Haco, Mount Baeis, Puerto Viejo, for tuna, tamerindo, you can find pretty much what you're looking for there. Pot isn't really a big thing here, but still you, you know. Again, at your own risk, at your own risk, Coke is a big thing down here. That's usually the two drugs. When you're talking about stuff like ecstasy and other maybe drugs like that, you're probably going to have to know somebody, I think, or whatever. But Coke and pot, pretty available, pretty easy to find, in most places, you know, ask the bartender, the taxi driver. But again, this is at your own risk. I'm not promoting this. I'm just saying how they handle it. If they found marijuana on you on a small part, it would be next to, it would nothing would happen. They might take it. That's about it. I think I've told this story before. I had a friend leaving. He had, I think I can't remember the amount, but it was quite a bit of pot. It wasn't just like a, you know, a split of it. Like, let's say two ounces. He did miss a slide. And then the rebook is slightly. It took him out, you know, but nothing happened. They just sent him on his way. So now, Coke, that's a different story. And again, that would probably be depending on the amount that kind of stuff. So when you're, if you're searching for that kind of thing, the party drug in some of those places, those places are pretty easy to find it. And again, you're playing at your own risk on the whole drug thing. Now we've got to talk about bribing a police officer. We've got to talk about it. I'm not promoting that you should do that because all you basically do when you give money to a police officer is reinforce that behavior. And I don't know if we really want to do that. But it is kind of a thing down here. But I don't want to reinforce it. But sometimes if, you know, they're telling you this bill, you know, you're speeding 80 miles an hour or whatever, and this bill is going to be $300. If you're going to go that route, and I'm not telling you you should do that, just do this. In your best innocent gringo voice, go, oh man, I don't know, Costa Rica. Is there any way we can just take care of this now? That'd be great. You don't go through your wall and act like, I mean, like, it's just that's what they do here. You play that like, I don't know. And if I don't think they would go, your officer offering me a bribe, then you would just go, no, I thought I would just thought if I could take care of it here. So just trust me on this. I mean, I'm not telling you what to do. I know what I would do in this situation. I don't want to reinforce it for the police officer, but I made videos about this back in the day where I was kind of like, I'd rather give the police a little bit extra money for him and his family than, you know, maybe the government. But I've kind of since changed. So you got again, this is at your own risk. But if you go that route, just all you got to do is say, oh, man, can we take care of this here? That would be great. And you don't have to give him that much just so you know. All right, I've changed my stance on this as well as I'm getting older. Anybody, you know, I've been, I've traveled all around. I've never got travelers insurance. I've never done. I'm taking the risk, man. That's kind of what I do. But as I get older now, which changed my mind a little bit is working. Now, what do you guys, if you're just watching for travel tips, you don't know where I'm talking about it. I work with a guy that works in the medical dental tours and field. And he's kind of a guru about all that down here. And we've done the stories where gringos like maybe you have had an accident down here. And it can go very south, very quick and edit it very expensively. So if you're older or you think you're going to be, or you think there could be this much of a chance that some to help think could happen to you, get travelers insurance. All right. And even you younger people, I know you won't do it. But if some of you younger people that are doing something that you're going on adventures, you're repelling, you're going to be jumping off cliffs and shit. I want to consider it because I got videos about this. We've talked to people that got stuck here with all kinds of issues. You can see the videos. And the money racks up big time. And I'm not going to get into any more than that. So consider travelers insurance. Now let's talk about gay people, black people, and women. First gay people. They don't care anymore. That was a thing maybe five years ago. They might tolerate it. I'm not sure how much they accepted always, but they do tolerate it now. It's not really a thing thing. So you could be gay, probably even hold hands anywhere. They just think you're a tourist, you know, a tourist thing. I would say be respectful. If you're going to be doing gay stuff, you know, like you're making out at the pool, make sure you're staying at a gay hotel. I mean, don't be doing that at a family hotel and you're doing that. I mean, that's just not respectful. I actually don't even like to watch that from three couples. So you're gay, you're fine. You're fine. So that's not going to be an issue. Black is not an issue either. So you can travel around. You're fine. No one's going to discriminate against you. All right, so you're cool. Women, if you're a solo traveler and you are a woman, you're going to be saved. If you have any comment sets, you're going to be fine. Obviously, you don't want to be walking the beach at 11 at night. And if you're going out, you want to go out with your, you know, people you meet along the way. Hey, y'all going coming? Can I go with you? You're not going to walk the streets. You're going to take a cab to a club, take another cab to the other club, and then attack the home. All right, so women you can. I know a million of them that have traveled to Costa Rica by themselves. We used to do couch surfing back in the day, and we had a lot of solo women travelers. They did good. They were fine. They were fine. Comments, cents. Now, I do need to save this. I don't know if this is going to make sense to you. But I think it's pretty safe to travel alone. Costa Rica. But the fact of the matter is, when bad things happen, when things go south, when you get the news, the big headline is such and such murder happen, is somebody that was alone. OK, so take that as it is. I think you're safe, but again, common sense, all right? Stay away from, you know, this is common sense of COVID. I've seen this so much, and it's probably the only reason that I've put it on the list. Keep your ethnocentric comments to yourself, and don't be telling a waiter if he did it this way. This would be better. You know, this is the way we do it in the United States. Don't say that shit, man. Don't be mocking. Don't be making fun. Don't be making your down in their country. You're doing the things they want. You know, you're doing the things how they do it. Don't be that. Don't be that gringo. That is so unbecoming, and it embarrasses me to no end. So keep your United States stuff up in the United States when you come to Costa Rica, wherever you're coming from. You have your culture. They have theirs, respect it. All right, you're gonna love Costa Rica. You're going to love Costa Rica. It's beautiful. Everybody loves Costa Rica. It's the most beautiful island in the world. Did you hear that? Do not buy property. You and your wife, you're having a great time. You're walking the beach and all of a sudden it's like, honey, wouldn't it be cool if we had just said this place overlooking the beach? We can do it. We can do it. We have the money. Don't buy property. This is a whole romantic feeling. When you get it back into the real world, you'd be like, what the fuck did we just do? We just don't buy property. Nothing. Don't plan. No house. Don't even go looking for houses the first time you hear, okay? And you think you might be laughing about it. Now, like, we would never do that. Well, guess what? We'd be down here and you see how it can close and we can just wrap its arms around you. Go, aren't we the most beautiful country ever? It's not hard to go. You know, we should, if we just buy some land now, we'll build on it later. All right, don't do it. Don't do it. Sunscreen and mosquitoes. Sunscreen, you know, you're 10 degrees from the equator man. Equator, 10 degrees. Don't mess up your vacation right off the bat. It's so, if you had a bat, a sunburn before, you know how bad that sucks. Sunscreen mosquito repellent. Now, if you're around me ever, you won't need mosquito repellent because I, all of them mosquitoes bite me. And there are those kind of people and I have friends that mosquitoes never bite them. But you want to be prepared to have your mosquito repellent. I know you guys are all about, let's do organic. I want to, not salmon though. Sitter, no, no. Sitter, no. Now that doesn't work for me, I need deep. I need the strong stuff for me. But do you, but the mosquito repellent and sunscreen, don't forget it. All right, don't fall in love here either. This is about to bind the property thing man. Don't fall in love. Don't just, you're not gonna find your next wipe down here as you come down here. But you, you know, you're going to, this is the funniest thing ever. So guys go to the club and, and, you know, some 10 or 11 girl comes up and starts dancing with them and the guys thinking, yeah, must be looking pretty good tonight. Yeah. No, you don't. She's gonna rip you off. She's either a prostitute or she's gonna rip you off. And this goes for both gay and straight. Both gay and straight. I've seen this in real time, happen. I've seen this in real time. So be very careful. Now, the women and even in the gay world, the gay thing, the people that you're meeting are party people. You're not meeting respectful people of Costa Rica. Why aren't you meeting that respectful girl that you've always wanted to meet? Because she's back with their family. She's back with their family, having dinner and doing family things because she's a respectable woman. So the women you're partyin' with, you know, at the bar, be careful, be careful. And again, this goes for gay and straight. So the guys are players, man. So when you go on that rapping tour of women and you're like, man, that guy's so cute. He knows these cute. Trust me, he knows these cute. And he will be another notch on that belt if you're not careful. So let's end up about that. Now, just real quick on your hotel room. Let's say, you know what? No, this guy's my match, man. I'm bringing him home. I don't care. Again, gay or straight. Bring him back to your hotel room. You better have your hotel room bolted down, man. You better have your shaver locked away, your money, your passport, your computer, your phone. All right? Don't forget, I just told you that, right? What else? All right, that's it. I got a bunch of bonus tracks. I got some quickies. I know this video's going on, but again, you never have to watch another one. Souvenirs, you buy in Souvenirs. You don't buy in Souvenirs from Costa Rica. These places that have 73 two cons that all of the same carved out of wood, they're from China, man. They're from China. Now, if you just want something to represent your time in Costa Rica, hey, go at it. But if you want to help the locals, the actual people that are artisans here that make artwork go to those places and buy their artwork, their wood, their wood stuff, their jewelry, but when you go at these massive Souvenirs shops, just say, thanks, China, because it's not from Costa Rica, man. Oh, just rule. Did you know that you can go to grocery store and buy one of anything? You can get one stock of salary. You can go up there, you have a headache, go up to the cashier and ask them to pick up some aspirin. You can buy one aspirin, two aspirins, two Los Angeles, one Los Angeles, you're cold medicine, up at where they ring you out, or you can buy one apple. You can buy one of almost anything in the store. Most people don't know that. Man-Won Tonyo, you guys going to Man-Won Tonyo, man, this is a thing, and you can have to be aggressive on this. You go down in Man-Won, it's all gonna make sense when you go down there. You're gonna see people that look official. They look official, they're telling you, hey, go here. You need to turn, you need to stop. Where we're talking to you, no, you don't need to stop. They're trying to get you to park in their parking places. They're trying to make money off you. Go past all those people. And actually, you can even flip them off as you go by. They are, this is a total scam. And there's a bunch of them. There's not just one person. They're doing it, and they'll get right out and they'll roll it on you. They're like, oh, no, you need to stop. No, you don't. This is Man-Won Tonyo. I know where their place does this. Man-Won Tonyo, you not have to stop for those people. You don't have to listen to those people. They're out for, it's not necessarily a scam scam. I mean, they might find you a parking place or something. Oh, we're gonna want your car for you. You don't get to stop for these people, right? That's Man-Won Tonyo. Right in the public buses, I've seen this happen in real time, take my word for it. If you're using public buses and you tend to sleep on the buses, if you're putting your luggage in the overhang on top of the bus, use one of those sturdy zip ties and tie it to the bars of the bus. I've watched this. They wait for you to fall asleep. They'll actually, they usually work in tandem. They'll take it all right off the rack and go out at the next stop. I watched it happen, and I, well, I already knew it happened. So one of those nice ties, shh, wrap it around, especially if you fall asleep on the buses. They don't like slamming doors, man. If you want to get back to any taxi driver ever or anybody you don't like slam their door, they hate it. It's almost like you hit them in the face. I don't know what this is about. I don't know if this is a, well, it's a cultural thing because they're all like this, all the men slamming doors. But if you don't like your taxi driver and you want to get back at him, slam the door. If you're on the beach, don't wear your shirt. It's all right, go shirtless. But when you come to a place that's like an opportunity, I see this all the time. Teacos are too nice. It's disrespectful to walk around town without your shirt on. It just is. I know. I know you're like, I'm on vacation. Be respectful. On the beach, do it. It's fine. But when you're in like in towns and have nothing to do with any water around, put your shirt on. All right? If you do have a problem, like, let's say you have a rash, you don't know where it is. Maybe you're feeling a little hot. You think you might be coming down with the flu. You don't know what this bite is. Go to the pharmacy first. Don't go to urgent care. Pharmacy, they have doctors that are there, usually at the pharmacy, and they might be able to take care of you there. And it's going to be cheaper. So pharmacy. You people that are big into Airbnb's just make sure that that Airbnb is really where they say it is. They might put like in here. I see it all the time because I used to be in the world of Airbnb's. The Airbnb's in particular. No, it's not. It's 30 minutes away. Now, you might not care. Some people like, I want 30 minutes away. I want to be private. But some people weren't expecting that. They thought they could walk into town. So make sure your Airbnb is in close proximity to where you think it's supposed to be close proximity to. All right? And the other thing about Airbnb's, if you know Tico culture, they get this thing called Tico town. They're kind of on their own little timeline. So and getting a hold of them can be tough. So just on the Airbnb's just know that, well, you were going to meet me to let me in for that. You know, they might come at six. Just if you're doing the Airbnb route, which is big here, like it is everywhere. So you can find a really good, or even on Airbnb. All right. So yeah, that's it, man. All of what this comes down to is a lot of common sense. Use it. You're going to have the best time ever. And again, some of that rental car information is huge. You definitely want to do that if you're ready to car. Yeah, it's going to go a long way. Let me ask you guys that are in bed here, or if you have more tips like this for people, please write them down in these comments. Where did I miss something? I'm sure I did. I always miss something. All right. So please leave it. If you like this video, please thumbs up it. And subscribe. I'd appreciate it. Hey, guys, I'm Mike Longtrap, because you're going to have to come. Peace guys. I know this helps. You don't even have to tell me. I know it's good. All right. Things are going to pop up. If you're thinking about living or traveling anywhere, especially Costa Rica, always do your homework and research. And there's no place to better start than our videos. All right, man. Have fun in Costa Rica.Welcome to Costa Rica, the tiny country that's big on adventure, where you won't find massive resorts and shopping malls, but you will find over 400 waterfalls. You'll find volcanoes, caves, and stunning beaches here too, so if you're into exploring, this country's definitely for you. This is Explorcation and we're a Jamie and Skyler, and recently we spent eight days road tripping through Costa Rica. In this episode, we'll be hiking up a mountain in the pouring rain, jumping off of a waterfall, You want to do it? Eating lunch in a cave, driving on one of the country's most dangerous roads, and doing a new thrill-seeking activity for the very first time. Along the way, we'll show you some amazing Costa Rican food, our breathtaking high-rise Airbnb, some San Jose nightlife, and our new Costa Rican friend. So sit back, relax, and enjoy the ride because this Costa Rica adventure starts now. Good morning! Here is our view from our little rental up here. The birds are so active. And when we could have easily spent the day relaxing at our mountain Airbnb, we get things to do in places to be. And those places will lead us down some more narrow and bumpy, but absolutely beautiful roads to the meeting spot for our big adventure of the day. Another road that you just have to go very slowly on, and very thankful to have a four-wheel drive. I do wish it sat a little higher because we'd have bottomed out a little bit. And while it wasn't perfect, our little raft four always got us to where we needed to be, including the office for Pacific Journeys Tour Company. Now it's not too often that we book with tour companies for our adventures, but since the spot that we so badly wanted to visit with located on private land, we'd have to go there with guides. But thankfully, our guides in Toneo and Priscilla turned out to be fantastic. After checking in at the office, we had a short drive down another mountain road to where we'd park and begin our hike into the forest. We got our parking spot for the day right by this bus. I think we're gonna start hiking. The hike started out quite steep, and in just a matter of minutes we had some amazing views. Wow. That's the ocean back there, it's a little clouding. Oh, okay, so water back there. We're just gonna look like clouds right now. As we continue on our hike up this trail, we do want to mention that this is the fourth and final episode of our Costa Rica Road Trip series. And if you want to see more Costa Rican hikes, waterfalls, beaches, and views, be sure to check out our other three episodes after this one. After several minutes of hiking on a mostly dirt trail, we reached our first section of stairs. A little bit we know, we'd be climbing over 3,000 of these on our journey to the waterfalls. Thankfully, Antonio had all sorts of information to entertain us along the way, including some about the local tent making bats. Because the bats, they've lied and hanging to the battle bane on the lift. So, kinda cut it on an ice, they lift bane so they make a shelter for a sleep in there. So, we are gonna have lunch in the cave. Once we make it up here, later today, and somebody on a horse brought up all the ingredients this morning. There seems pretty crazy that a horse can make it up such a steep mountain. Unfortunately, the cave and our lunch were still over 2,000 steps away. You said when they bring kids on these trails, sometimes they try to count all 3,000 steps, but they always forget. I don't think I'd make it to 100. We learned that these 3,000 plus stairs stretch over 3 kilometers and took over 2 years to build. They eat it that way? Apparently, there's a slough, but sometimes hangs out in this area, but not seeing them now, maybe when we come back. This is a water trail, but you have to know how to cut it right to get the water out of it. Just to flip it. After a brief but much welcome section of downhill climbing, we came across some of these beautiful red maraca plants, which interestingly can be used as shampoo or your hair. We got some bamboo plumbings over here. They say you can drink this water. There's no farm around here, so the water is very clean. We brought water, but it's nice to know if we run out. We can refill our bottles here. After cooling down with some refreshing mountain water, we continued to make our way up the trail, past more maracas and lots of bamboo. That's a bouquet. We're all in a day 20 centimeters. What's a day? Oh my gosh. Just a short walk passed all the bamboo. We reached a spot that we sure didn't expect to find on the side of the mountain. How is the garden area? We just walked through the garden area. It's so unexpected to be up on this mountain and have such a gorgeous area with flowers and plants. And there's actually someone up here maintaining it. You can probably hear the weed whackering background. And while we sure were happy to have such a beautiful place to rest, we were even happier when they brought out this next. Oh yeah. Oh good. Better than our bananas at home. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I'll probably eat a whole one. Yeah. Very good. After our banana snack, we took a tour of the gardens where we learned a lot about some of the local Costa Rican plants. We even got a taste of few of the plants. One of which was particularly strange. They say that tastes like blue cheese. Oh, the blue cheese. So this is a fruit that tastes like blue cheese, smells like blue cheese, and Skylar loves blue cheese. What do you think? Oh. It tastes like green cheese, right? It's fresh heart-a-pom. The plant is called Estococca. So this is pretty much the leaf. So when they are young, you can use this part and eat it like they're heart-a-pom. Heart-a-pom? Do you want to eat it? You can try. And the face is like that. Yeah. The face is like that. In between our snacking, we got to learn a bit about some of the local wildlife too. You just walk around here. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. This is Skylar. It has this no biting spider on him because he wants to. So they're growing cilantro here, which is the stuff we find in the store. This is cilantro as well. It's a type of basil. It smells really good. Does this one make your tongue numb? Oh yeah. I don't want to do it. I don't like that feeling. This is a vanilla plant. And when it flowers, you have to pollinate it manually because they don't like it. It's a kind of basil. It smells really good. Does this one make your tongue numb? Oh yeah. I don't want to do it. I don't like that feeling. I don't like to pollinate it manually because they don't have the right bees in the area to pollinate it. And also they use this to make the bags for import the coffee. They have to be in these bags. See how strong is this? Really? So what they do, they get a lot and a lot, embrace it, and make it big, strong rolls. Next, we got to learn about the cacao plant, which you may already know is used to make chocolate and should not be confused with this next plant, which sounds similar but is very different. This is called cooking. Cooking? Cooking? Really? See? They use it in Peru, but they come to the artificial plant because this makes you get better air and helps with the altitude. Come on, can you guys stop basing? So basing. Oh no, no, no. What does this taste like? Rosemary. Rosemary, come eat you. Better? Better? This is what you would chew if you were climbing from Machu Picchu? Yeah. The number you're scouncing out the wall. The rest of the hike to the waterfalls was all pretty much a blur. Just kidding. We really didn't feel much effect from the coca leaf at all. Is it an on foot? I already know. Yeah, it's like we're in the clouds a bit. Yeah, gosh, it feels great. It's a nice look now. Normally, you can see all the way to the ocean. Today, we've just got to my club view. Go on up again. Up to the swimming hole and then we'll go down to the cave. This way, we're going to have this steep. The steps. And we really feel that you're in the clouds now. You're really cloud to get to the pools. Nice place to take a break. Before we head out that way. As we continued to hike upwards, the clouds only seemed to get thicker and the views were non-existent. But Antonio's endless knowledge of the land continued to keep us entertained along the way. I'm looking for this because I build it, boil it and use it for bait for fishing. Really? What kind of fish eat that? We have a fresh water features called Machaka. And the river? Yeah, the rivers. Our rain luck has finally run out. But that's all right. We're going to make it up here anyway. This feels pretty good. And we're going to get wet in the water anyway. See if the rain has cooled us down even more. At least we got the rain on this height and not the one we did a couple days ago. That was up a even steeper mountain. That was covered in clay. That clay would be so slippery right now. Whereas this trail, it's a lot of rocks, a lot of roots. So it does get a little slicker in the rain but still pretty easy to navigate. This is why you should bring a dry bag even if you don't plan on swimming. As the rain's got harder, the trails seem to only get steeper. But Antonio assured us that we were almost at the top. We're getting pretty high now. I think we said the highest elevation that we'll get to today is around 3000 feet. 1000 meters? 1000 meters? Yeah, around 3000 feet. We have reached the high point of the hike. We're going to go down now towards the pools. I think we can here a little bit of the water already. And the rain, I think, has stopped. This is very muddy though. You can hear the squishes. Yeah, we're squishing. The hardest work is over. Having down into the pools. We have made it to the water. Oh, it looks so nice. Don't film me because I'm probably going to fall. She has much better balance than I do. Okay. Alright. While Skyler's river crossing was far from graceful, he did make it across relatively dry. And after going down a few more stairs, we reached a beautiful blue swimming pool. And while a dip in that pool did sound amazing, we were even more excited for the next one. This rock is the slippery. Okay. The water is pushing here. Oh my goodness. We walked by the moth. You walked on the moth. Yeah, the moth's here. We walked by the moth. Okay. I got an edge. Get the moth as dry as it has to go with. You looking jump right here. See there. Okay. So we left Skyler at the top of the waterfall. We're hiking down to the bottom so we can watch him jump from the top. Then the idea he'd be jumping from so many waterfalls on this trip. But I know that he loves it. We'll all go down to the bottom and video him. Ooh, this was a big one. Ready? Oh, it's freezing. Holy cow. Since Skyler's jump went off without a hitch and getting to the top of this fall seemed relatively safe, I decided I'd give this waterfall jump a try to. Alright, see you in the end. It's gonna jump. You want to do it? You want me to count you down? Five, four, three, three, four, three, four, five, four, five, four, five. You want me to count you down? Five, four, three, four, three, four, five, four, five, four, five, four. Three, two, three, two, you can't do it. I've shaken it out. I couldn't do it. I was too worried about my back but I probably should have been more worried about walking on the rocks. Over there? Yeah! Thankfully I was fine and so was our GoPro and after another successful jump off the waterfall, Skyler was feeling pretty good too. The rest of the trek to the cave would involve a little more uphill hiking, but thankfully it was mostly down. So this part of the trail is known as the Puma Trail, I guess. And they have actually seen Puma Tone. This is where the Puma sharpens its claws. Oh, great. I know, yeah. That's from a Puma. With the thought of a Puma lurking somewhere on this trail, the thought of the waterfall jump no longer seemed quite so scary. Thankfully, we'd have another opportunity to get our adrenaline going just a short hike away at the next waterfall. Yeah, on to the repelling portion of the circumtory. Ready? Yeah. I was probably going to be a little scary, but I'm excited for it. I have no spoilers. So I think he's saying we're going to go over that. Oh my gosh. Are you nervous? No? Yeah. And the structure is awesome. While I definitely felt far from indestructible, I followed Antonio and Skyler's lead to the top of the 90th-foot waterfall. Here, you're going over that edge. While Skyler and I both rock climb and have plenty of experience dangling off cliffs, the introduction of millions of gallons of rushing water made this activity a bit more terrifying. It's different here, don't you? Just rock a little bit, but take your feet, and straight into the rock. Now you're heel, now you're heel on your salt. Okay. Straight into the rock. You're not sitting in the heart. Good, man. And I used to lie down a little bit. I used to lie a little bit. Okay, now how are you going down? After receiving some great instructions from Antonio, Skyler was first up to repel down the falls. And while he didn't seem to be at all scared for his personal safety, he was very afraid of dropping our GoPro. Yeah, that's where the rock is. Where the steepest? Yeah, when you get off of the cloth, it's much, much slippery here. My main fear right now is dropping the GoPro. I, on the other hand, was much more concerned about me falling than the GoPro. Oh no, that blanket's ending. It's going to get... Click. Okay. I don't know. Oh f***. Yeah, it's click. Surprisingly, I think I was a less nervous during the repel than Skyler was. And while the transition off of the blanket was a little bit scary, I became pretty comfortable soon after. So the trick is... It's taking your time. You know, a little bit of slack. And a little bit of cut moving. It's pretty scary. I never repel before. This is our first time. I can't think of a much cooler place to do it for the first time. The main thing I think right now is just not getting startled and letting go of this GoPro. I've definitely got a gesture upon it right now. My hand is actually getting pretty sore. So they are right. Like the very top part when you're just first getting over is the hardest part. Once you're fully in the harness using the system, it's much easier. Alright, there's a green rope here. Means I'm getting to a step area. There might be hanging soon. Woohoo! Oh, yeah! That's so cool! That's good! Wow! This is nuts. I love it though. So now, as you get further down it when you're free hanging, you don't have to feed it through nearly as much. It does just kind of go down on its own. You just have to kind of guide it. Now I'm just hanging. This is the waterfall in the background. Like how freaking cool is that. I have to just turn it on. But I am. Alright, here we go, here we go. And I'll even sky-let-a-will admit that this repel is a bit scary at first. The views of the falls and the canyon below make this unforgettable adventure well worth the extra $53. If you ever decide to go repel in and want to do it from a really cool first time, I would highly recommend it. It was awesome! And I feel it! So how do you bet it? Yes, I would definitely recommend doing the repelling option. That is so cool. While the repel down Diamond De Falls sure did deliver on the excitement, our tour was far from over. As we'd still get to enjoy a fresh, coast-reacon lunch in a cave before hiking all the way back to our starting point. Now the thought of eating lunch in a cave may not seem too appealing to many, but this was definitely not your average cave. And we couldn't wait to see what was on the name. Yeah! That's a huge area under here. We were quite impressed to find that this cave not only offers a fully functioning kitchen, but also several places to sleep for those who book an overnight tour in the cave. And while we only booked a day trip and wouldn't be spending the night in this cave, we'd still get to enjoy it for an hour or so before making the hike back down the trail. We took some time to explore around the cave as our lunch was being prepared, and we found that it also offers showers, restrooms, and all sorts of amazing views. This is the view from the bathroom out here. Before we knew it, our lunch was ready, which included these vegetarian organic tacos, not only were they delicious, but we also learned that they were made with all locally sourced ingredients, some of which were actually grown in the garden on the property. While the fresh food was great, the highlight of our meal had to be these views, and we both agreed that this was surely one of the most beautiful spots that we've ever enjoyed a meal. As Antonio and Priscilla cleaned up after lunch, we took a few more minutes to soak up our tranquil surroundings, before making our way out of the cave and back onto the 3 kilometer trail. We left the caves grateful for the experience, but wishing we would have had more time, and if we were to do it again, we'd definitely booked the overnight stay. That mist was pretty chilly, wasn't it? A little more of a pass though on the side. Yeah, we sure will. My gosh, it was so nice hanging out in that cave behind the waterfall. How many places can you do that? I'm sure other places, but no places we've been to yet. The hike back down the trail involved a little more rain, a lot more fog, and even more stairs. But it did have a few highlights, which included finding this huge Costa Rican centipede, our first two canciting, and chatting with the local Howler monkeys. What kind of monkeys that? Howler monkeys. Make it do it again. Whoa, whoa, whoa. It doesn't respond to me. On the hike back, we also got to drink some fresh mountain water from the bamboo pipe. What are you thinking about fresh mountain water? I'd charge you $3 for that in the grocery store. This pool is, it would be to hike this in full sun without the cloud coverage, really enjoying being in this cloud. We just don't get this in Florida. So allegedly the ocean is over there. Still cloudy on the way down, but that's alright. We've enjoyed so much of this hike. But this has to come back and do it again on a clear day. Getting down under the clouds again, it's a little bit clearer here. But gosh, we came down a lot of steps. Gotta get back before sunset. The stairs are a bit mudier than on the ramp. Gosh, these views are so good. Can see the ocean right in there. After a few more stairs and quite a bit of mud, we eventually made it back to civilization, where we hit the road, insert to food, and one more waterfall. While it may not look like it from a distance, according to Costa Rica.org, this waterfall is Costa Rica's tallest. In fact, the largest of the Diamante Waterfalls spans 600 feet in height, and is located not far below the cave we were just at an hour or so earlier. But the sighting of Costa Rica's tallest falls checked off our list. The only things left to do were to grab dinner and get home before dark. Thankfully, restaurant Momasandra was located just down the gravel road from Diamante Falls. We stopped by the soda that was recommended by Ursula and Skaller. This is my ex-girlfriend. She's just keep petting me while you order and eat your food. Skaller trying to try my blackberry juice while this cat puts it still. And his claws in my leg. The recommendation for Momasandra's turned out to be a great one, as my fresh blackberry juice was perfectly refreshing, and our food was really good for the price. Look at all this food. I ended up with a fish cassado, and Skaller went with some sort of chicken and a mushroom sauce, and we did nibble a little bit on the way home. And it is very good. And of course we stopped by. The mini-sugar and Skaller got another bottle of wine. Our seventh day in Costa Rica started off a little bittersweet, as we were excited for our drive to San Jose on Route 2, but reluctant to leave our little mountain Airbnb behind. While this Airbnb may have been simple, it had everything we wanted, including a comfortable lounder, a dining space for two, a fridge, and a hot plate and toaster oven. It also had a bathroom with a walk-in shower, and up this flight of stairs it had a loft with a huge king-sized bed. But most importantly, this Airbnb had great views from almost everywhere in the house, and at around $110 per night, it was a pretty amazing deal as well. These flowers attracted the hummingbirds, so every morning we were able to watch the hummingbirds fly around these beautiful flowers. But after two wonderful nights in this Airbnb, sadly it was time for us to go, but not before another two-can sighting on our way out. So this was the hardest Airbnb to get to with the roads, but I think it's also the hardest for us to leave, because it is just gorgeous up here and very peaceful and secluded. But it's time we're heading to Dominic Al and then to San Jose. I'm not going to miss having to be a passenger going down this road because I have not driven it. I'm sure Skylet is not going to miss having to drive up and down it. It's not my favorite. And it could be worse. Yeah, it's kind of so cool. Yeah, at least these roads, there's no concern that we're going to fall off either side of it. We've definitely been on roads like that before. We did eventually make it back onto the highway and on our way to Dominic Al, but by then it had started to pour. The whole wet outside here is going to have to do it, put it through from the inside of the car right now. And I'm sure if those three things are like, this is nothing. We're here at the end of rainy season. I think some of the mountain roads are not passable during the rainy season when they've gotten a big rain. So we decided to stop off and wash our car mats in the rain. So our car mats were pretty dirty from all of our hiking, but we've got a nice view of this rocky area. Even though it's super cloudy and raining quite a bit, it's so cool to see. And the northeast, so I'm not saying I think we need to clean it well. Alright, let's go find some breakfast. So we were hoping to go to this breakfast spot called Porte No. Apparently it is temporarily closed. I don't know how long it's been temporarily closed. Instead we are going to the brewery because it opens at 7 a.m. I guess they must do breakfast? My breakfast brewery. Right, so we'll find out though. I see a sign that it's our coffee vibe, so that would be awesome if they got some good coffee too. We were excited to find that attached to Fuego brewery is Fuego Coffee Roasting Company, which in addition to its coffee vibes does offer actual coffee as well. And after placing our coffee orders, we made our way upstairs to find this beautiful pathway in the trees. And at the other end of that pathway, we found one of the most unique breweries we've ever seen. And the perfect spot to spend a rainy Friday morning. The sky that was excited to find that even at 9 in the morning at this brewery you can get a beer. But first we'd have to drink our cappuccinos, which were strong, creamy and tasted amazing with a little bit of local honey. Before Skyler finished his coffee, he already has ordered a flight because we are at a brewery. This is a Wannabona ale. Then we've got a mango peel ale. We've got an espresso border, which they use their own coffee beans. And lastly, he's got a double IPA here because he can't order a flight without an IPA. While Skyler was more than happy to drink all four of these beers, his favorite was the espresso border made with Puegos, House Roasting Coffee Beans. And while Skyler enjoyed his beers, I enjoyed this beautifully presented fresh fruit while awaiting the rest of our breakfast. Our remaining food order wasn't too far behind and included the eggs Benedict for Skyler and the avocado toast for me. And while this egg Benedict was far from the eggs Benedict's we're accustomed to, it was really, really good. As you can probably see, my avocado toast was bright and colorful and tasty delicious. We both agreed that this wonderful meal in this beautiful tropical setting was the perfect way to cap off our four days in the Oveeda and Domenicale area. But we were excited to hit the road for our next Costa Rican adventure. Unfortunately, that road was still very wet and rainy, but at least we'd have over six hours to get to our San Jose Air B&B before dark. Alright guys, it is about 11 a.m. and we are on the road to San Jose. And at the moment it actually isn't raining, which is great because as you can see, Jamie is driving and it is very hilly and very curvy because we are taking the highway to route back to San Jose. And then up on some of the highest roads in all of Costa Rica and through the area known as the Hill of Death. We're so glad we're going to get to experience it in the daylight because it is supposed to be a very dangerous at night. Now because we're able to get our coffee, our breakfast and our beers all in one stop is saved a bunch of time and allowed us to get on the road really early. And since we have so much extra time to get to San Jose now, it should be a lot of fun, but maybe also a little bit scary. Hopefully we don't encounter too heavy rains, so let's just luck. After about a half hour on the road, we had made it to the city of San Isidro where the elevation would begin climbing pretty quickly. Jamie successfully made it through downtown San Isidro's a bit of an adventure. It's a very bustling city. Yeah, it looked a lot busier than I was expecting. Soon we'll be in the really high mountains. As we make our way further up into the Costa Rica Mountains, we want to thank you for coming along with us on our Costa Rica adventures. And if you've enjoyed this series and don't want to miss any of our future travel and adventure content, be sure to subscribe to our channel and turn the notifications on. So we just keep going up and up, but we have noticed the change in the vegetation. We haven't been seeing as many homes and ferns and stuff. It's just a much less tropical landscape. Definitely have entered a different climate zone. It does look like we're going to continue to keep going upwards for a while. Thankfully the road conditions are still really good, and we are at no hurry to get to San Jose. We've been driving in the mountains probably for about an hour so far. I think we are approaching a town called Division. We should hopefully find a bar restaurant to stop off at. Take a little break. So it was quite foggy for a while while we were driving, but now it's pretty clear that when you do pass through the area with a view downwards, you can see nothing but clouds below. So it actually seems like we're probably above a lot of the clouds right now. Yeah, you're right. Oh my gosh, it's so much clearer out of here. So we did stop off at this soda a little over an hour into our drive, and it looks like we could have ordered lunch here. They had to fight a bit to offer, but we're not that hungry. But we had to try an empanada and some of their fruit juice, so we're just waiting for it to be ready now. There's a lot of downs here. There's another one here. I know a whole bunch of people just came in here and ordered some food and it smells really good for ever she's cooking. And somehow there is the great service up here. Here we ordered a pineapple juice and a blackberry juice, and I can smell our empanadas already. Now our empanadas did take a little while, but that's to be expected considering they were literally made from scratch. And while we had a feeling they'd be pretty good, we weren't expecting them to be this big. So these two fresh juices and these two giant empanadas are only like six dollars total. Carn empanadas, right? Made from scratch on top of the mountain and coastering. What do you think? Okay, so those empanadas were hands down the best we have ever had. And the biggest. Yeah, so we watched her like get whatever do it was, smash it down, put the meat inside, then put the top over it and fry it. Freshest made to order empanadas. Highly recommend. And they were what? A buck 50 apiece. Oh my gosh, yeah. A buck 50 apiece somewhere around there, close to that. Yeah, I think everything we ordered the two empanadas and the two drinks, we thought it's like six dollars American. Yeah, so if you want to find an inexpensive food in Costa Rica, you just have to drive all the way up in the compartment. But along this drive though, we have noticed there are sodas all along the way, different restaurants. Some of them would have really good views on a clearer day. So far, we would recommend this drive, but we still have half of it to go. So I think you're going to take over now? I am, and there is only not even one o'clock, so we still got four hours to sunset. We're good. We got time. As we walked close to this dog, it just rolled over. Like I'm in pet need please. Got more persons, these are my own dog. Yeah, definitely for you the most dogs we've seen on this trip. But it is a lot cooler up here. Yeah, absolutely is. Little children. Oh, there comes another one. Oh, oh! Oh my god. Still going up. As the road continued to climb upwards and signs of civilization grew less and less, I was glad to be back in the passenger seat. And Skyler was definitely happy to be driving. All right, we're back on the road. Skyler is driving. But I just wanted to talk about how we ended up in that place. We thought we were going to go to this other little town that I think Skyler might have mentioned earlier. But I think we just blew past it without even realizing that we drove through town. It's very small. Yeah, so then he just hopped on his phone, and he used his Google Maps that he had downloaded prior to this trip. Because up here we do not have the best reception. If you do plan to drive anywhere around in the country, we would highly recommend downloading those Google Maps ahead of time. He was able to look on the road ahead and see if there was anything as far as a soda or a restaurant. And saw that little place was rated like 4.7. Because without that, we definitely would have kept on driving. We actually initially drove past it and then turned around to go back to it. We are definitely still in the clouds. I know Skyler you just started driving, but where are your initial thoughts? I love it. He loves it. Not really a surprise though. But we can totally understand why people recommend not driving in the night. Oh, I would hate it in the dark. Yeah. Because there's no lights and it's constant, pretty sharp curves. Lots of steep hills. The road itself is great though. So as long as you can see good, it's fun. But at night and fog, it would not be fun. Along this highest section of route 2, we did see several signs for rock slides. And we learned that it's not at all uncommon for sections of this road to be completely closed due to rock slides following a big storm. So we do think we've reached the high point on this drive. I think we're going down elevation. But it has started to rain. We're thinking we're in like a national park maybe right now because we haven't seen a house for miles. We do keep seeing signs to watch out for these animals that cross over the road here. I'm not even sure what kind of animals they are. I'm really hoping to see them. Yeah. We later learned that the animal on the sign is known as a bareds tapir, which is the largest native land mammal in Central America. Sadly, we never did see one. But if you ever have, let us know when and where in the comments. So I do think one of the reasons this road is so dangerous is just the way that people drive on it. There have been several places where people have been passing on double lines. And you know, if you don't slow down, you're probably going to hit them. So that is a little nerve-wracking, but we haven't come too close to anything like that. So the rain has picked up quite a bit on our drive here. But we're just taking it slow. And something we have been doing is if there are people behind us on this road and we feel like we're holding them up whenever we find our pull-off area, we just get to the side and let everybody pass. So that way we can continue on our way and not feel pressured to go faster than we would like to. After driving over an hour through National Parkland and seeing almost no signs of civilization, it was a welcome sight to finally see some houses down in the valley below. And we knew that meant that before too long we'd be checking into our high-rise Airbnb in San Jose. And after one more quick stop for fresh juice and a little more driving, we'd finally reach San Jose and the Airbnb that I was so excited for. So there was another reason we wanted to make sure to get that drive done early today. And that is because Skylar saved the very best Airbnb for last. Now we'll show you more of it here shortly, but take a look at this. We are on the 174 of urban Escalante, which according to Wikipedia is the fifth tallest building in Costa Rica. I'm pretty sure the four taller ones are all night over there in downtown San Jose. Now in case you're wondering exactly what around $125 per night can get you for lodging in San Jose, we're gonna show it to you. After spending some time relaxing, enjoying the amenities, and taking in the views from our Airbnb, it was time to hit the town on our last night in Costa Rica. After a week full of gorgeous beaches, big hikes, and bigger waterfalls, we got to admit we were exhausted, so our night on the town in San Jose ended well before midnight. But we did find time to grab a good meal at the Hardin Lelita Food Court, which had a great selection of food and drink options, and was just a few blocks away from our Airbnb. And of course, Skylar couldn't in the night without enjoying a couple of coast-threakin beers, while I saved just enough of my appetite for a delicious cup of ice cream. Our eighth and final day in Costa Rica began with some much-needed coffee, which we sure didn't have to go far to get. Oh, that's very cool. And they even gave you a stir stick, and you don't even have to leave the apartment as much. Yeah, you come up to the top floor here, and you can have a nice view, although today it's pretty cloudy. The weather was a bit gloomy, but we didn't mind, as all we had to do on this day was fly back to Florida. We hope you enjoyed coming along with us on our eight days in Costa Rica, and if you missed any of them or just want to see them again, you can do just that by clicking here right now. Thanks for watching!Hola todos, bienvenidos a mi canal, me llamo Alex aka Alex de Vagabond y en este video estoy extremamente emocionado para compartir con you todos los tips para Costa Rica, mi favorito pas en latina me ha visitado Costa Rica 7 veces el primer tiempo en 2002 cuando era un 14-year-old, surf grom y ese primer visit para Costa Rica me Early religiousmente solidified laieso por el lavado-l Gospel y para Basarco y por el swampado y9 veinte enspeaking SO tablespoon que me ha markers todo suerte de modelo con malropias sin introst  sofrendoso antes de lucharlo, nosbones prepar Spiderfist y si te gustan de video, simplify en eby las frsijdan ok devi ser en fin Tienes de los ms diversos, radianto y susto! Vamos a instructionalizar que ramos bend  deectores en el U.S. y en 2018, eran ms de 3 millones de visitas de Costa Rica. La ciudad es ms grande, es slo la size de West Virginia, pero no se fieles por la medida de la ciudad, es la ms biodiversidad en el mundo. Costa Rica es locada en Central Amrica y es bordado en la Norte de Nicaragua y en la Salta de Panema. Es la especie de la ocean, en la ciudad de West Coast y en la ciudad de East Coast, es la Caribbean Sea. Es la ciudad de 7 regiones. Sen Jose, a la Juela, Herrdia, Cartago, Guanacaste, Punta Arenas, y Limn. La nombre de Costa Rica derras de Spanish y es el rato de la ciudad de Rich Coast porque los primeros espanyols que ha llegado en Costa Rica eran agredidos por nativos que fueron elaborados en las ras y noses. Segn los heredos originales los arqueos de la ciudad han sido evidenciados que han sido aportados a los heredos de los heredos de los heredos en los 1500s, Christopher Columbus estaba en Costa Rica en la final de la ciudad y fue una colonia de Espaa. Pero despus de eso, fue muy bien neglectado. La Spanish no fue la rica de la ciudad que eran Looking Four en Costa Rica, as que fue una periphera en la espanyol empayada. En 1821, Costa Rica ha sido de Mxico, la rude y chao de excajable de la espera de la fama La Guilaria es una de salvation en el 1824 en la nationalistidad. P  9 de la claves en la y iguales una de de disappeared que en la naturaleza hacemos inter mirrors sin pesarelcome aos que esta ahh mente es tan ia, Pero pensamos que parece sed Sophn a retroces las seis de noticias en esa forma, porque es es una de las capas del Marco del Latving America, eso no hay una karma y es como hay tienen rockas dramatas Con el lugar como Andrs, es behaving como el impersonador de UVA. Son las condiciones de  que os,ocrrs del destroyed seeur de la Unidos de la Guerra statista. Costa Rica, la popularidad por jobbar como historias pslicas de Los T betterias Para Emirticos, latency fordi nicely por ser ms zigando,eron milhoonacn amph driveway, haciendo milaine Castins para tan leerlo no Monetbildung, Alucret para eso, electromagniembros en mixadores e cons northwesten y solo viaceim incluso la entre $10 y $20, correlate para marcar eleparidad y siguen dispersed, ya queleton si se progreso de un falso en el interior de laationalcie, tiene preparada Eve unos sitios organizados... cuando tiene tu acto y significantlyelles y que nias Elsa estn mismos, es como un carrer en lare, laencia ms importante para affrontar Mixo, aseg Cabaln y la domedaya Juan Pedro de Cruyenda. No. 2 Advocatorio por el Kral, La Lada Los Ciszenes en Costa Rica van en iphone DN Esta es la resistencia realista. Los Amerika no hacen Without Por Whole, as como tanto es la EME en el mural  overseas clearing ZUZCESRA Kane Es una clause muy escena de la equatera Y una clauses en Remo Las Sisiones reasarzas, controllador y muri Aquel Jesucrim No vamos a bouter adi un toque anterior These are small for the most part tropical storms that get a little bit of rain maybe in the morning and then clear out by the afternoon for a nice sunset. It does make for very dramatic photos during the rainy season. The dry season is much drier, it's much dustier, and it's hotter. So, I have visited in both the wet and the dry season. Personally, I prefer to visit during the low season, during the rainy season. Si vas a visitar durante el tiempo de la fecha, me recomiendo que se vea el mes de octubre. Esto es el mes de octubre que se vea el mes de octubre si puedes. Nmero 3, acominacin. Costerica tiene el gamelo de acominacin. Everything from little family run, bed and breakfast to large international global chains. Yo he estado en muchos grandes hotels de familia. Estas son grandes opciones. Me recomiendo que se vea el mes de octubre. Visita mi amigo en Hermosa, en Pia Hermosa Beach. Pero la ltima vez que me he visitado, mi fianc, Cari, y me estaba en un Airbnb, en el pas de la ciudad y en diferentes AirBnBes. Y eso fue la ms gratificada para m, personalmente, para trabajar. Pr rendered que no los de parent Colombia se vio susies. Y ahora  going this. Por no la indispensable debo que las que mis spindres omega,clock abo,ebox, intolerableLa una bildung es la ms gratificada. Entonces cones de tener cuidado de toda la Gesetzada Med pressures de Charzaha. Esc Tikian F all Mexico. Qu increble es que todos est enforcementa mezclated  las esperantes. Huh, conceptas trans Fe All Don Alejandroillo, jak de Surveyos de leur interior Cof injecto un S debe en el mscmino en este sueo en San Subttico el enfector refresh De todos los carryinges defensores Si los veis de descin Cycl no que piensa Seriously, voy a trabajar que presumably no regulating el thuselado.acion Wow Don Eduardo del conenio Herm andra Dos ghforus Estats sou falsos muy  decoration y ditipped mucho pero sibicamente que Gene la habitaba super J artk seguramente blefa de 100kg! Tut Seth es wannado! Yuri dedicas vi 100kg yo heowyado un poco, y s que por estrut how minimundo ky trenches mucho ms ms Pero cuando el kerido no est valiendo Vamos al que despower el cmodo contaminado y implementar el Smithetic Material tambin preciosa que suena. Ya que das mas bien lejos moderate cmo podrs nadar eso. Y el placer surge muy harante. Cuando se commence a drape lasencias, responde en una caja de ceyes que se etc. Encomunizamos el o nei paredna a una guerra mantendo para agregar un partie CAD. Quiero filtered cuando est por pareil parazinar. Esos tem vozathithactpis. Las sitios que ocurren en Frank, estn con la speora a pronounced en las as planes Studio friendly. sophomacia Saunter cometidos, esto dijo. Un vraiment ReedMO quien expliqu tienen veinticacin Barack da aqu frente a Barryimientos CanEs Este ha eman whochido y tal por lo copper narriz... Isto est loque lo voces de laiping into Trans hacia centrase discap Lastronged Manor ni la carbohydrate y la modn discutir la Labourg Terrible, Xing vinieron con la Sapara University de Obano fundar el falso quitado del revenue, comoages de Por ejemplo, hay que ver el gols de convinced v. Que de situ nchste y fin de semana, Y en este mundo, tens de los aos. So don't be alarm if you smell sulfur, but definitely it's worth googling before you visit what the volcano is doing. Number 7 wildlife Costa Rica is one of the most biologically diverse countries on earth. It only takes up 0.03% of the earth's surface, but over 5% of earth's species called Costa Rica home. Costa Rica is also leading the way in conservation in Central America. Over 25% of Costa Rica's landmass are protected in national parks. That means for visitors that there's over 100 protected wildlife areas to visit. So if you're into birdwatching or just being out in nature, you're quite literally spoiled for choice in Costa Rica. Monkeys are the most common mammal, but be careful howler monkeys can be territorial and aggressive. You'll probably hear their noise coming from the canopy. It sounds something like... So when you hear that, you know it's a howler monkey, not just like some angry ogre in the forest. Sorry, Shrek. And also be aware if a howler monkey is right above you, do not antagonize it because they do as monkeys do, which means sometimes they defecate in their hands and have been known to throw that defecation at you. So be careful howler monkeys do throw poop. It's also home to 52 different types of hummingbirds, and if you know how to say hummingbird in Spanish, write it down there in the comment section. Costa Rica is also home to over 750,000 different species of insects. That's over 3 quarters of a million different types of insects. It's home to more than 10% of the world's butterflies. So if you're afraid of creepy crawlies, then definitely be aware. Costa Rica has a lot of bugs. They're very big, and they do occasionally from time to time make their way into your hotel room. Also, there are mosquitoes, so make sure you bring a solid mosquito repellent, and make sure that you bring that from home because that, along with sunscreen, is quite expensive in Costa Rica. It's marked up a lot because locals don't really buy either of those products, only gringos do, so the prices are quite inflated. But make sure that you're putting that on your ankles, your wrists, the back of your neck because mosquitoes definitely love gringo blood. One of the best ways to deal with mosquitoes, though, is to wear long sleeve, long leg clothing. I'll link down in the description. Some of the clothes that I recommend bringing, like a packing list, that's down there in the description. So make sure you check that out if you're wondering what you should bring. Lastly, I recommend visiting the OSA Peninsula if you can. It is, quite literally, the most biodiverse place on planet Earth. It's very rugged. It's quite an adventure to get there, but there are some very unique eco hotels out on the peninsula, as well as a really good wave called Matapalo, where you can stay and surf. It's a journey to get there. It required us crossing a river on a floating barge, which was quite an adventure in itself, but it's a beautiful region, and it is the most biodiverse place on Earth. So if you're into different animals and different plant species, then head to the OSA Peninsula. Alright, number eight beaches. There are over 801 miles of coastline and over 300 different beaches to choose from. Any way you look at it, a trip to Costa Rica has plenty of coastline for you to explore, plenty of beaches for you to lounge and lingerie at, and if you're a surfer like myself, then you are spoiled for choice with waves. Some of the best surf waves that I've experienced in Costa Rica are Pliaharmosa, just outside of Haco, Oli's point in which is rock, which require a o-trip from Tamarindo, and then also in the south, Pavones, a mythical left point break that is kind of fickle. It doesn't get swell very often, but when it does, it is an incredible wave, and I got very lucky this last trip to be able to catch it with a good swell. So there's also the wave Matapolo on the OSA Peninsula, but there are plenty of waves to choose from in Costa Rica, both on the Pacific and on the Caribbean side. If you want beaches without the crowds, then you should head to the Caribbean side of Costa Rica, home to a more diverse Afro-Caribbean culture. It's also home to some incredible sites that are worth seeing. Head to Puerto Viejo and check out the Jaguar Preserve there, as well as Finka la Isla Botanical Garden. Number nine, Cloud Forests. Besides volcanoes, the other thing that Costa Rica is very well known for internationally are its Cloud Forests. Cloud forests are a very unique ecosystems. They're high alpine forests that have 100% humidity. This humidity creates a haze that people often say is like walking through a cloud. This unique humid environment leads to some very incredible biodiversity in the Cloud Forests themselves. Also remember that the Cloud Forests are much cooler and more wet, so make sure that you have a jacket, something to keep you warm because the temperatures are much cooler than down in the lowlands by the beach. Tip 10, San Jose. San Jose is actually a quite a young city. It remained essentially a village until well into the 1800s. Now over one third of the population of Costa Rica, Ticos or Ticas, as they're known, live in San Jose and the surrounding suburban areas. The main airport to the country is in San Jose unless you're flying into Temerindo and Guana Costa. Personally, I'm not a huge fan of San Jose, but things have been changing. It's modernizing, it's getting safer, and there are more food options now, including a craft brewery. But for me personally, I don't spend all that much time in San Jose. When I land, I rent a car and I head straight to the coast. Tip 11, Coffee. Costa Rica is known internationally for the quality of its coffee beans. And coffee is still a major draw in Costa Rica, as well as one of its largest exports. Coffee has played a huge role in the country's political, economic, and cultural development. Coffee growing took off in the late 1700s and created what were known as coffee barons. The Golden Bean is still a prized export, but coffee production has become much more small scale. Also, most coffee plantations in Costa Rica have some form of tour with the tasting available for tourists. Tip 12, Get Off the Beat and Path. This last trip to Costa Rica, my fiancee and I spent a bit of time in Pliaharmosa surfing, and then we drove the whole length of the Pacific coast down to Pavones on the southern border of the country. It was quite an amazing road trip. Getting off the beaten path in Costa Rica is really going to open up new experiences for you. It's going to bring your budget down because you'll be staying farther away from the tourist centers. And it's really just going to give you a more authentic Costa Rican experience, a real taste of the Pura Vida, as they say there. And if you get a chance, I highly recommend that you visit a turtle hatchery. So some of these beaches in Costa Rica are home to returning sea turtles, who nest and give birth to their young there. Depending on what time of year you visit, you can see the turtles coming in from the sea to lay their eggs, or the young newly hatched turtles emerging from the nests and climbing down to the beach to begin their lives in the ocean. Either way you do it, it's a really magical experience and it's going to give you a whole new appreciation for the life of a sea turtle and the beautiful birth of these incredible aquatic creatures. That being said, many of these beaches are protected and you can't visit without a guide. So look into that for yourselves, depending on which region you're visiting. Finally tip number 13, eat like a local. I am a huge fan of the Blato Diplico, as they say, or the Castados, which literally means married because these are the plates, the typical dishes of families, something that your wife would make you back in the day. It usually consists of a protein, whether it's a bistec, a steak, pollo, chicken, or some fish alongside some rice and black beans with some plantains, as well as breakfast of gallopinto, which is kind of like a little mixed fried rice, breakfast fried rice with some eggs on the side. Lizano salsa, the green salsa, is just like life-changing. It's just so, so good, especially after a morning of surfing. So I highly recommend that you try that out when you visit Costa Rica. Okay, damas y caballeros, ladies and gentlemen, those are my tips for Costa Rica. I am a huge fan of Costa Rica, the Dicos and the Dicas that I have met in my life have always been extremely hospitable and kind. So please, when you visit, make sure that you're respectful to the locals and that you respect the environment because Costa Rica is just such a unique country and it deserves as much conservation and es behavior as we can give it. So please, when you visit, just remember, be respectful, be good travelers and you will have an amazing time experiencing la pura vida, or the pure life. So if you enjoyed this video, please give it a big thumbs up, share it with your travel buddies, hit that subscribe button with notifications enabled if you have not already and please, I'd love to hear your tips for Costa Rica down there in the comment section because I know I'm ready to go back right now. I just made this video and I'm like, it's time for me to visit again. Okay, muchas gracias, nos vemos en el prximo video y bueno, ay amor. Bye everybody, as I always say, train harder, fail smarter and never give up. I'll see you all on the next one. Peace.Welcome back to Costa Rica everybody and welcome to the final destination in this beautiful country. As you can see from behind us we've traded the mountains for the beach and we've headed down to Manuel Antonio which is on the Pacific coast. We're going to spend five full days here and we hope we'll be able to show you around what to do but eat your usual things. If you watch that for us on other videos back from Mexico then you know that we know the beach kind of people. We prefer the mountains and jungles and hikes. It's a great thing about Costa Rica is that you're never far from the mountains the jungles wildlife. It's like here in Manuel Antonio the jungle literally comes right down to the beach so you can go hiking in the morning and then chill on the beach in the afternoon. It's also one of the best places in Costa Rica to spot wildlife. We'd not seen a single monkey our entire two weeks in Costa Rica and then within like two hours of being here we just saw monkeys like right next to where we were staying. And this morning when we arrived to the beach we're literally spotted a slug just. I mean it's literally like just over there in the tree. We'll show you in a video. It's the closest one we've ever seen. Yeah on our own without a guide and our first destination is actually right behind us you can just about see it. So let's go. The number one place to see on any visit to Manuel Antonio has to be the Manuel Antonio National Park which is where we starting out tour of the area. This park is one of the top destinations in the entire country and for good reason. It combines all the best bits of Costa Rica and frozen together into the smallest and perhaps the most diverse national park in the country. You've got dense jungle that's absolutely teaming with life and apparently in this small area it's a little bit easier to catch some of the more elusive creatures. That's what we're hoping anyway. And when you're done with hiking and spotting wildlife you can head down to two of the most beautiful beaches in the country to relax in this tropical paradise. But more on those a little bit later. So we've just entered into Manuel Antonio National Park and before we start exploring there are a few things that you should know if you're wanting to visit this place. The interviews are sixteen dollars each without a guide if you want a guide and there'll be a bit more expensive. It's open every day but Tuesday between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. But it probably best to get air as early as possible so you can make the most of your ticket. Obviously make sure to be a very off-scammers that are apparently a lot of scammers if you come here with your private work or with the parking but also they're trying to sell you tickets as well to the parks. I think I'll stay where it tours. I like your tickets for the park. Thanks. Which you can't officially buy in person you have to do it online. We're going to start by walking as many of the trails here in the park as we can. There are six trails in total. They range in length from like 1.5 kilometers to a few hundred meters. They're all really well marked, easily accessible trails. Open to sort of everyone really. Hopefully we're going to have loads of cool animal encounters along the way. So much more wildlife. I can't believe you. How much we've seen in 10 minutes without a guy. Like this park absolutely wins already on another wildlife. So there's one animal that we just haven't seen yet in Costa Rica and that is a snake. Well we're not sure we want to see one too close. I don't mind seeing some but I want to see that very poisonous one. No yeah apparently here they have the feral ants which is the most deadly viper in in Costa Rica. We're keeping our eyes peeled but they're just really really hard to spot unless you get really lucky. We're just finishing up the trails now and they've been really good actually. Like a lot longer than I thought they were going to be. Maybe not that longer because of the heat. It takes you a little bit longer to walk around and it's quite like a lot of steps. The wildlife here is just crazy. We've seen like four or five times the amount we saw in any of the other parks and such a variety of different animals as well. So that is 100% worth your entry ticket right there just to see how many different animals there are. But we have worked up quite a sweat as we said doing these hikes. So I think it's about time we went and checked out the other half of what makes this park so special. So Mamal Antonio National Park actually has four different beaches that can only be accessed if you buy an entry ticket into the park and they are. So there's player Escondido which is just down at the bottom of this cliff over here and I don't think it is accessible to the public because it doesn't seem like there's any path down to it. So it's in the park but it might be protected in some way that's why you can't get to it. And then there's Clio Gamela. And the two most popular beaches by far are Espedia Sir Beach and Manual Antonio Beach which are on either side of the Cathedral Point Peninsula. If you could imagine a tropical paradise in your mind these beaches would be pretty close to what you would come up with. In fact Manual Antonio which you can see behind me was actually voted in the top 25 beaches in the world by the Trip Advice as Traveler's Choice Awards in 2019 so it's definitely got something special. So I think for the rest of the afternoon we're just going to chill on the beach, soak up the sunshine and enjoy this tropical paradise. As the sun began to set we headed back to the town of Cappos where we were staying and spend the evening down by the harbor to watch the incredible sunset out to sea. You've seen that they have some beautiful beaches in the Manual Antonio National Park. However you probably don't want to pay multiple entries just to go to the same beach again. No they do have lots of different beaches along the coastline here in Manual Antonio that are free to enter and they don't have to pay like a pretty expensive entry fee to access. And it is just as beautiful, not even pretty or actually. So we got here nice and early and the beach we're starting on is Espedia Norte Beach which is the same beach as one of the ones in Manual Antonio. It's just that part of the beach and there is obviously only able to access that in you via ticket. Welcome to Niagara Waterfalls or well at least the start of a six kilometer trail to the waterfall. Yeah nothing comes easy. We had a super early start this morning because the waterfalls are actually about a 45 minute drive down the coast from Cappos. Obviously we don't have a car so we had to get the local bus which takes probably just over an hour plus then from a place called Dominico. We had to get a taxi all the way up to the waterfalls which is like another 15 minutes and cost about $20 so. That was expensive although there are local buses which are a little bit in the lock post that will be linked below. So we're hoping to get one of those buses back when we when we return from the hike. You can also take a tour obviously but we were checking prices. That was crazy expensive. Yeah. $130 per person but if you're short of time and if you have the money to spend you can definitely take a tour. So we've arrived safely fairly easily to the waterfalls. Now we just got to do the six kilometer trek to them which is a pretty steep already. Yeah. We're not looking forward to the way back which will be probably around midday which is the hottest part of the day so. It's going to be pretty pretty tall. It's much easier to jump down together. This hill is like ridiculously steep. I really don't want to come back. One kilometer done. Bye, Mosul. We got to the start of the official trail. So actually two different entrances you can get into it. When we came to it's kind of the longest but it's definitely the cheapest one if you do it on your own. The other one was about $30 and cheapy. However it's only about a 30 minute walk but this one is only $10 per person to get into the waterfall but obviously it's a four or six kilometer hike depending on whether you have a vehicle or not. So basically this one offers you a bunch of different options. You can do the hike like Kitty said. You can also do horseback riding tour or a four by four tour that takes you down to the waterfall. Obviously you're going to pay more for that but you do have some different options here if you don't want to do the hike. It's really up to your personal preference which one you want to do. For us we just wanted to see the waterfalls and we're obviously tight on time because of the bus schedules. So we just wanted to get there and back sort of as quick and as cheaply as we could. The park is also open from 7am to about 3.34pm. Highly highly recommend coming here as early as you can in the morning because we got here at 8am and it's already pretty hot. Yeah it's boiling already. We're halfway there three more to go. One more kilometer. This is actually how far the Jeep comes up. Pretty much takes you all the way to the waterfall. Maybe we can sneakily get one back. There are actually two waterfalls at Nauyaka, the lower falls and the upper falls. We highly recommend heading straight down to the lower falls first in order to get your pictures in and dive straight into that refreshing pool after the long hike. You can even swim over to the waterfall for the ultimate power shower. Once you're done admiring the lower falls you can head back up and along the walkway towards the upper falls. From here you get a different perspective of falls and pool below and can climb up to get a closer look at the upper falls too. We're just starting our walk back from the waterfalls now. We had a okay amount of time there. We had about one and a half hours there. It's quite a good amount of time if you just go there to chill, swim a little bit, take a few photos. We did feel a little bit rushed and of course now we're like trying to push ourselves to get back to the entrance so we don't miss the bus that we want to catch. The waterfall's were 100% worth the effort. It's beautiful, the light on it was just amazing. Nearly like 11 o'clock so it's getting really really hot. It's not going to be a fun walk best. This is it. The hardest part. Actually the entire way back for the first four kilometers to the car park was actually pretty much all downhill. I didn't realize actually how much uphill we went on the way there. Just this last section, this last two kilometers is very steep. We've still got about an hour to get to the bus stop though. How far have we come? Oh it's just brutal. If you have a car, bring it car. This last section is disgusting. See the level of my sweat. Just beating sweat. Sweaty high five. Oh my gosh. Even if you don't have a car, just hire a car for the day. Even if it's more expensive, it's not worth climbing that hill. Oh yeah, great sense of achievement. Burnt about a million calories. We then waited for our bus back to Kepos for a while before it came and took us all the way back to the town. This is our last night in Manuel Antonio and one of our last nights in Costa Rica. Unfortunately. We've come down to the beach to watch the sunsets which I hope is going to be really nice. We really enjoyed our stay here in Manuel Antonio despite the heat. Yeah it's been fun. But honestly this was probably our favourite place in terms of wildlife. We're obviously not like beachy kind of people as we've said but the mixture of jungle and beach here sort gives you a bit of variety. For us that's been kind of perfect. We don't need to chill on the beach all day so we can go in the jungle, do a few little hikes and adventures and then just come to the beach in the evening and sort of relax which has been like the perfect balance. We've had a great time in Manuel Antonio. We hope you've enjoyed watching this video. We're also going to be leaving Costa Rica very soon. We're going to a new country for both of us and a new continent as well. So leave a comment down below if you can guess which country we're going to be going to next. You like this one? Give it a thumbs up and consider subscribing and we'll see you in a new country and a new adventure on the next video. Bye!Hey everyone and welcome back to the Travels channel. My name is Dylan. Today I'm going to be taking you through 15 things that I wish I knew before Costa Rica or before coming to Costa Rica. And there's quite a lot of things that would make your trip so much easier, better, and just some great things to know. So I'm going to start off this list right in here in this lovely national park area. By the water it's crystal blue. I don't know if you guys can see this is absolutely insane. So first things first, when you're coming to Costa Rica if you're traveling through America regardless of if you're stopping over for a day or not you need an ester. An ester you basically pay $20 and they approve your form which is saying like you're not going to do any damage or work in the US and you basically need that ester to get through boarding and customs in the UK without that you can't fly to Costa Rica via the US or anywhere in the anywhere through the US really. Now the second thing on the list is to be careful if you're renting a car to ensure that there is a spare tire on the back of the car because sometimes in the roads they can be very, very bumpy. There can be a lot of stones. It's fairly common to have your tires slashed in Costa Rica apparently. We got a flat tire on our very first day of the trip. Still unsure whether it was slashed in the very first day because it was extremely flat or whether the roads in Montezumore are just so, so bumpy that it gave us a flat tire. But it only costs seven quid to get fixed at the local garage and it didn't happen to us again. Despite driving on the same roads lots and lots and lots so it could have been smashed as a common thing. But make sure your car rental comes with a spare tire as you might need it. Secondly, again, whenever you're hiring a surfboard, a car, whatever it is, make sure as the tip number three that you film everything to do with that rental because they might try and charge you for stuff that isn't your problem. Also the car might have been damaged before you got it but you might need to prove that it was damaged before you got it. Same for the surfboard, same for all of that sort of stuff. So make sure you film everything before you hire it out. Make sure as well you bring a lot of money because Costa Rica is very expensive. Kinder Bueno in Liberia is 3,1800, which is insane. However, I also was able to get a T-shirt, a nice fake T-shirt to be fair, a night one for 1,200. So some elements like the food and drinks are very expensive and other elements like you can find some cheaper stuff but it's way more expensive than I ever realised. Make sure you bring a lot of bug spray for tip number five because the bugs are everywhere. Number six, often if people are ever trying to help you with it being a tour guide or trying to help you fix your tire or something like that, they often want money for it so be careful that they're not just helping you to put money. So apparently we got told that if somebody offers to help you a tire, a change of tire, they might be trying to rob you by the car rental place so they told us that. So watch out for those sort of things. Now another thing to know, number seven is going to be that on a Tuesday, if you're going to Montezuma or someone like that, stuff can seem kind of closed. And we also found that as well as a Tuesday, I guess, to them right now is that on a Friday, Montezuma in the local nightlife was absolutely zero. However, on a Saturday, it was completely popping off so make sure you do a lot of research into what days pop off when it comes to nightlife. The bus is in Costa Rica. They come very, very, you know, sporadically at tip number nine. So tip number nine is whenever you're trying to find something out, the internet is not as reliable as it would be in the places of the world like UK, America. Often the best thing to do is to go up to people and ask them because if you ask them, the locals, they know everything like the spot right now. I mean, I was going to go somewhere else, but I asked one of the locals at the hostel and they recommended this place to me and I do not regret it at all. It's absolutely insane. So asking people is the best way to find out about buses, to find out about where to go and all of those sort of things. There are buses that take you all over Costa Rica, but the times are very sporadic and they can hurry you onto one bus to the next bus. And it can get a bit crazy. So make sure you keep all your valuables on you and in yourself all times because it will get hectic. And I've got five more tips, but I want to make sure we do these at the actual waterfall. So let's get going. 10 minutes and I'm already being rinsed by bugs. And another tip for sure is that if you're going to a pond or a lake or something like that, bring loads more bikes, pray than you think you would need because I was finding Monty Zuma, Santa Teresa by the beaches by the surfing places, but as soon as you get around here to the local inland, ponds and national parks, the bugs for me are moving crazy. They're literally packing me, but yeah, here's what I'd also say tip number 11 in Costa Rica. The beaches are great. I think most of our holidays are the beaches and stuff like that, but having come to Liberia, but I just think how stunning some of the inland places are. Like I've now realized that don't get caught up with amazing beaches and whatnot because the beaches are great, but I think the stuff like this, you cannot find this many other places in the world where there are a lot of nice beaches everywhere. So don't just get caught up in the beaches. Unless let's go to this waterfall and go for a swim. It is lovely. And I like it because although I had to do a slight bit of a trek to get down here, then a slightly off-half route, that was an arrow, but I came down a bit further to find this lovely seafood a bit of a wonderful, so worth it, man. So that first part I just showed you seems to be in the middle of the car park area behind the tubes. Now I've turned right on all the way down the car park and I'm following a new path. And this one might take me to some caves apparently, someone had said to me. So I'm going to try and find these caves. If you're a good swimmer, apparently you can swim. And then at the top end there is the main waterfall. So I'm doing it in reverse orderish. So let's go check this out. So maybe this is the main waterfall. I think there's so much of this waterfall that you can access. Look at this. Wow. And up here, this is insanely nice man. Look at this. Then let's get in. It's not quite a hot swim. It has to hang this. It's quite hot to swim, man. This is all for the challenge, child. Leave a like if you want to. Travels challenge, this is it. We're just getting my phone out. And if I'm busy. Now it's lovely. My skull's all the way up to the waterfall so I showed you earlier on. And these are the caves. I think there's a waterfall somewhere further up as well. Thank you.Thank you. Welcome back to On Travel X. Come with us on an unforgettable journey as we explore the Gorders scenery of Costa Rica. From lush rainforests to pristine beaches and majestic volcanoes, Costa Rica offers an unmatched experience in connecting with nature. Immerse yourself in ecotourism and conservation like never before. Explore the vibrant capital San Jose with its unique blend of colonial and modern architecture. Don't forget to tantalize your taste buds with mouthwatering local delicacies like Gaiopinto and Casado, savoring the authentic flavors of the region. Join us as we discover Costa Rica's commitment to sustainability and embrace the Puravita lifestyle. But before we get started, don't forget to subscribe to our channel and turn on notifications so you can keep up to date with all our latest destinations. Number 10. Temerindo. Temerindo is a fun beach town on Costa Rica's Pacific coast where you can soak up some rays, ride some waves and enjoy some chill ambiance. Catch world-class waves at Temerindo Beach, perfect for surfers of all levels. Venture into the nearby Las Belas National Marine Park, a crucial nesting site for the endangered Leatherback Turtle. Discover the vibrant nightlife scene with lively beach bars and delicious seafood restaurants. Take a sunset sail or snorkeling trip to explore the beautiful coastline and crystal clear waters. Sample local coast recon cuisine such as Gaiopinto and Casados at the town's numerous eateries. Number 9. San Jose. San Jose is the bustling capital of Costa Rica and a great place to experience the country's exciting culture and fascinating history. Wander through the colorful central market, a lively showcase of local culture, food and souvenirs. Visit the National Theatre, a stunning architectural gym and hub for the performing arts. Explore the fascinating pre-Columbian gold museum showcasing a dazzling collection of ancient gold artifacts. Taste the city's thriving culinary scene, sampling dishes like oya de carne and chifrio at local sodas. Experience San Jose's vibrant nightlife with options ranging from lively salsa clubs to craft beer bars in the trendy Vario Escalante. Number 8. Chiripo National Park. Chiripo National Park is home to Costa Rica's highest peak, Cero Chiripo, and offers a challenging track through untamed landscapes. Hike to the summit of Cero Chiripo, offering spectacular panoramic views of the surrounding landscapes. Journey through the park's diverse ecosystems, including cloud forests, alpine meadows and glacial lakes. On earth the park's rich flora and fauna, including rare birds like the resplendent quetzel and elusive mammals like tapers. Visit the nearby Los Cusinos Bird San Chury, a haven for bird watchers and nature enthusiasts. Rest and recharge in the charming mountain town of San Gerardo de Rivas, the gateway to Chiripo National Park. The park's most beautiful park is the most beautiful park in the city of San Gerardo de Rivas. The park's most beautiful park is the most beautiful park in the city of San Gerardo de Rivas. The park's most beautiful park is the most beautiful park in the city of San Gerardo de Rivas. The park's most beautiful park is the most beautiful park in the city of San Gerardo de Rivas. Number 7, Rincn de la Vieja. Rincn de la Vieja is a beautiful national park that is home to geothermal wonders and a pristine wilderness. The park is centered around an active volcano. Hike the trails leading to the park's impressive waterfalls, such as La Cangreja and Las Choreras. Discover the park's geothermal features, including bubbling mudpots, hot springs and fumaroes. Observe the diverse wildlife, including monkeys, coatties and over 200 species of birds. Enjoy horseback riding, mountain biking, or zip lining through the park's stunning landscapes. Relax and rejuvenate in the nearby hot springs, soaking in the restorative mineral-rich waters. Number 6, Corcovado National Park. Corcovado National Park, located on Costa Rica's off-the-beaten path, Oceponinsula, is a true biodiverse paradise. Trek through the park's lush rainforest trails, witnessing the incredible variety of plant and animal life. Spot rare and endangered wildlife, such as jaguars, tapirs, and scarlet macaws. Visit the beautiful beaches of the park, including the turtle nesting site at Playa Madrigal. Equate yourself with the fascinating archaeological site at Finca VI, featuring mysterious ancient stone spheres. Stay at an ecologe or camp in the park, fully immersing yourself in the pristine wilderness. Number 5, Tortu Guero National Park. Tortu Guero National Park is a remote haven for wildlife, and an important nesting site for sea turtles, making it an ideal destination for a thrilling jungle adventure. Explore the park's network of canals by boat or kayak, spotting wildlife such as camons, monkeys, and manatees. Stop by and witness the amazing sea turtle nesting season. Nesting season varies by species, on the park's beaches. Discover the rich bird life of the park, including two cans, herons, and kingfisher's. Visit the informative sea turtle conservancy visitor center to learn about the park's conservation efforts. Get away from it all at the park's ecologe, or by pitching a tent in the great outdoors. Number 4, Play Ahako. Play Ahako is a popular beach town on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica that is full of life and energy. Take pleasure in the sun and surf at Hako Beach, a hotspot for surfers, and beach lovers alike. Room around a nearby Carrara National Park, home to a diverse array of wildlife, including the iconic Scarlet McCaw. Enjoy the town's lively nightlife scene, with options ranging from beach bars to dance clubs. Take a thrilling ATV ride tour through the surrounding rainforest, visiting hidden waterfalls and lush landscapes. Indulge in the fresh seafood and traditional coast-reconditious at numerous restaurants and eateries in town. Number 3, Manuel Antonio National Park. Manuel Antonio National Park is a must-see spot on Costa Rica's Pacific coast because of its stunning beauty and wide range of animals. Hike through the park's lush rainforest trails, leading to pristine beaches and spectacular viewpoints. Spot the park's diverse wildlife, including sloths, monkeys, and colorful birds  relax on the idyllic beaches of Manuel Antonio and Espadia, surrounded by turquoise waters and lush vegetation. Explore the park's vibrant marine life on a snorkeling or scuba-diving excursion. Visit the nearby town of Cuepos, offering a range of dining options and lively nightlife. Number 2, Arnal Volcano. Arnal Volcano is a majestic and active strata volcano in Costa Rica's northern lowlands and it will leave you in marvel of the power of nature. Take a hike around the volcano on one of the many trails that offer incredible views of the summit and the surrounding landscapes. Soak in the rejuvenating hot springs, heated by geothermal activity of the volcano. Explore the nearby Arnal Volcano National Park home to diverse wildlife and lush rainforest. Experience the thrill of zip lining through the rainforest canopy or crossing its hang bridges. Enjoy the charming town of La Fortuna with its range of restaurants, shops, and accommodations. Number 1, Montverde Cloud Forest Reserve. Montverde Cloud Forest Reserve in Costa Rica is a biodiverse paradise in the mountains where you can lose yourself in the mystical beauty of the forest. Move through the reserve's network of trails, leading through lush cloud forests and offering glimpses of rare wildlife. Encountering the reserve's rich flora and fauna, including the elusive, resplendent, quetzel, and over 400 species of orchids. Live the unique thrill of a canopy tour, zip lining, or walking across hanging bridges high above the forest floor. Pay a visit to the nearby town of Santa Elena, a charming mountain village with a range of dining and lodging options. Learn about the region's fascinating ecology and conservation efforts at the Montverde Butterfly Gardens and Bat Jungle. Thank you for joining us on this incredible journey through the natural wonders of Costa Rica. For its lush rainforests, to its pristine beaches, and diverse wildlife, this Central American paradise has captivated our hearts. Share your own experiences exploring Costa Rica's amazing landscapes and vibrant culture, and don't forget to stay tuned in for more thrilling travel adventures that await you. May your future explorations be filled with boundless joy and unforgettable moments. We wish you an exciting adventure where every your travels may take you. Thank you for watching. See you in the next video. Have a good day.So, the adventurous ones and experts in saving money are again welcome. My name is Simon and I will be your beneficial guide leading you through the most exciting locations in every corner of our planet. This is Travel Guide Official, where we reveal the glory of the planet at a minimum price. Today we take an amazing journey to Costa Rica land with lush green forests, beautiful coastal lines and vibrant cultural landscapes. From an eco-travelers perspective, Costa Rica is a paradise on earth where adventures are endless and don't take much of your budget. So, let's delve into Costa Rica first 10 things to do from its lively towns and cities to the peaceful natural marvels that embody pure vida way of life, all on a budget. Come with me on this amazing journey through the center of Central America where every corner unveils another wonder and even further is a new experience in all struck nature beauty or profound cultural depth. Our Costa Rican journey starts in the vibrant colorful streets of San Jose, which is a city with abundant cultural activities and historical attractions. San Jose that is often neglected by travelers who strive to get closer to the beaches and rainforest locations turns out as a jam in disguise for adventurers with tight budgets. Here, we stroll along the colorful central market that is filled with life and where real Costa Rican culture really resides. The market is a maze of makeshift shops that sell various trade items that range from foreign fruits and vegetables to handmade local articles offered as souvenirs. It is a venue where you can treat yourself to some real Costa Rican food such as casados or galopinto, all for ridiculously low prices and at the same time enjoy an enchanting ambiance. We will also make our way to the National Museum where you can explore history of several millennia for a few columns as well. The streets in San Jose reveal architectural marvels and historical sites that have something to say about the city's history as well as its current state. As we stroll through the busy streets amidst colorful paintings and charming coffee shops, it is here that Costa Rica unveils itself. A mix of history, cosmopolitan life and pure happiness. Thus, after the departure from urban life, we seep into mysteriousness of natural Costa Rican at Aranal volcano National Park. The reason for it is that the park shall prove to everyone just how indomitable our nature is. Itself featuring Aranal volcano, one of Costa Rican geological marvels. Trekking through this National Park is an economical escape that reaffirms our contact with the elemental rapture of terrestrial opportuneness. The trails here meander through the rainforest and across ancient lava stretches, meaning that there is a range of suitable hiking spots for all kinds of trekkers. The trail offers a different view of the volcano and much to see in between. Wild animals such as monkeys on treetops or two cans sitting along the path. The hot springs are natural and yellow stone formed through geothermal activities and on top of fun at the park one can use this perfect way to unwind without having incurs while he enjoys hiking all day. Sitting in these curative waters amid a thick forest and with the powerful presence of volcano we can see what an amazing force mother nature unleashed when she wrought this planet. Our next stop on the trip is Manuel Antonio National Park, a magical place where the jungle hugs the ocean. This park, with an admission that is comparatively low cost in value, by the way, takes you into one among Costa Rica's most pleasing landscapes. The beaches are picture perfect white sand, clear blue water, and green vegetation that stretches all the way to the shore. It is the perfect place to swim, tan, or appreciate Pacific Coast nature. However, the park has more than just beaches. It is a biodiversity hotspot where you will meet several wildlife such as capagin monkeys that are playful in nature, slots that take life at their own languid pace, and also tropical birds with vibrant colors. A network of paths along the park guides us through a dense rainforest to fabulous observation points, where panoramic views from the ocean seabed and coastal plain lay you on your backs. Such is Manuel Antonio, a natural work of art that provides an inexpensive and peaceful hideaway for nature enthusiasts to beach lovers. Moving upwards into the highlands of Costa Rica, one is immersed within Monteverd Cloud Forest, this transcendent environment where the clouds come down to earth. This magical woodland is a real biodiversity treasure and it holds an incredible number of living plants and animals. However, the admission fee here is a mere pittance in comparison to all that mother nature has got on offer. The mist hung trails carry us along in a timelessness otherworldly. In the Cloud Forest, there is an abundance of nature sounds. Rare birdsong and clear and thickets rustling with imaginary local people through woods quaking due to distant howler monkeys. Bird lovers will find paradise here with their opportunity to observe resplendent quetzal, the single most elusive avian species globally. The woods are also home to an untold number of orchids, ferns and mosses decorating the entire landscape in a verdant goddiness. However, Monteverd is not a place, it's an experience that delves into the heart of Costa Rica's idealistic preservationist culture and serves as marker for what we can lose if we do nothing but destroy. Heading towards the far northeastern tip of Costa Rica, we get to visit remote and mysterious Torchugero National Park, sometimes referred as Tiny Amazon because it is a rainforest cocoon between canals. This park provides an affordable escape that allows you to feel thousands miles away from the hustle and bustle of urban life. Only reachable by boat or small plain, Torchugero is a secret place of heaven for nature enthusiasts and thrill seekers. Reaching the park is also an adventure, with dense jungles surrounding it and natural canals being used to find one's way around. After getting into the park, a cheap boat ride allows one to experience an up close and personal encounter with varied ecosystem. The canals are full of life starting from camins which lie on the river banks to kingfisher's gliding over water. Wildlife is in abundance due to luxuriant rainforests that serve as home for jaguars, manatees and countless species of birds. However, the most enchanting experience of Torchugero, a natural phenomenon which also does not cause anything, is watching sea turtles coming to shore for nesting. During a certain period of the year, in tune with their timeless order to lay eggs, these majestic creatures might be seen busy moving off another natural than life's show commoners or kings that all lay in bending as they ward on lawns. Key ingredient in any trip to Costa Rica that will not break the bank is a visit or tour of one coffee farms, with countries well respected plantations serving as captive venues where guests can experience breezy educational sessions on how cup of Java. For a nominal charge, these plantations situated in the beautiful hills provide one with an opportunity to witness how this cash crop grows. We begin the tour, which is being led by a guide about how coffee beans travel from their plantation to our morning mugs. We see how the plants are cultivated, harvested and roasted, allowing us to gain a new level of respect for this favorite drink. In every tour, there is a tasting session whereby we can witness the taste of fresh Costa Rican coffee. This country coffee heritage experience is the celebration of life for those farmers and even showcasing their cultures to understand better what have formed Costa Rica's best coffee kind of cross-globe. Seeking relaxation in one of the many natural hot springs available across Costa Rica is therefore an ideal way to unwind after tiresome days fall or exploration and adventure. A particular note in the Aranol area is its impressive geothermal activity leading to a range of thermal springs suitable for every pocket. Although some springs are found in high-end hotels, there exist treasures places that give a peaceful moment for nothing or just little money. The hot springs filled with mineral-rich warm water make an ideal backdrop for relaxation and are surrounded by the rainforest beauty wild. On a clear day, Majestic Arena Volcano All Spectators is an opportunity to pamper yourself without spending too much and enjoy the joys of a natural spa. Relaxing in this medicinal water, listening to the calming sounds of surrounding forest and looking at sparkling night sky, we can only think how also slowing things down live you time for contemplation. Next on our trip is the town of Tamarindo, which at Bright and Shining Port are visited by people longing for surfboard rides. This is a busy coastal town characterized by great surf breaks and relaxation, as it offers travelers fun-filled moments without having tea spend their fortune. The beaches at Tamarindo are a surfers paradise and provide affordable board rentals as well as cheap surfing lessons. However, Tamarindo has more to offer than just good surfing. It is also a place where one can soak up the sun, swim in the warm Pacific Ocean waters or take a leisurely walk along its beaches. The town is also a vibrant city with the combination of local color and international atmosphere that provides an opportunity for budgeted accommodation, restaurant service alongside nightlife. It is an ultimate place where you are able to taste the local surf culture, communicate with other travelers on various topics of interest and cheerfulness from a beach kind of life without money splurge. Costa Rica is famous for its incredibly rich biodiversity, which makes the perfect place to visit by birdwatchers and animal lovers. A total of over 900 bird species found in the country makes it one of the leading ecotourism nations on earth, Veda de Tau, 2006. What is amazing about this event that it does not require special knowledge and can be done by nearly everyone at a very reasonable price? With nothing more than a pair of binoculars and that natural buzz everyone carries with them, when out exploring the wilderness we set off into jungles, swamps and beaches bursting to life. One can notice the abundant bird life from resplendent quetzel and cloud forests to scarlet macaques on the Pacific coast. However, the wildlife scene is not only limited to these birds. Costa Rica's national parks and reserves are known for various other animals such as sloths, monkeys or tapirs. These close interactions with animals and their habitats are not only exciting, but they also serve as a bittersweet reminder of the need to conserve and treasure them. It is a chance to observe the natural world's miracles firsthand, with this privilege, of fistication such an essential duty of preserving and conserving these valuable ecosystem SES. A traditional activity in Costa Rica that concludes our journey is the visit to local sodas, where one can celebrate the lights of national cuisines at a family price and have an opportunity to taste real dishes born by this territory during centuries. Eating in a soda is far from simply being provided with food. It involves the visitor into cultural environment. Here we feast on the region's staple foods, such as galo pinto, casado and ceviche. Each bursting with taste and made from only locally fresh ingredients. Frequently sodas are located in busy markets or on sleepy streets and wink at us to wander through them so that we could find the essence of Costa Rican cuisine. It is an opportunity to commune with the natives, explore food traditions of this country and enjoy delicious home cooked flavors that only Costa Rican cuisine can offer you. Dining in either of these sodas is a tribute to the pleasure brought on by basic humble dining, where the ambiance was comforting, the lectable food and an unpriced experience. Our travels through Costa Rica have been a canvas of unforgettable memories. From the bustling streets of San Jose to gentle waters in Tortugero, winding paths throughout Arreno and Azura waves cascading on Tamarindo shores. All this time we have been immersed into the atmosphere of Pura Vida. All these days we enjoyed beautiful cloud forests and its exotic animal species as well, relaxed and therapeutic hot springs or tried amazingly delicious traditional food. Costa Rica has taught us that adventure and serendipity need not be expensive and more often than not the best experiences lie in edifying nature's simple gifts of earthy beauty and culture. If this economic tour around Costa Rica has inspired you, do not hesitate to give it a like and also subscribe travel guide official for more travel guides. This is Simon concluding the trip of exploring the gems and grand adventures in this world. Therefore, keep on traveling and never stop having these dreams. After all, the most beautiful gems are those that feed your soul without robbing you blind. Until our next adventure, keep asking questions and continue to marvel at the beauty of this world.10 Things You Need To Know Before Going Coast Arica Imagine yourself surrounded by lush rainforests, pristine beaches, and exotic wildlife that's coastarica for you. This Central American Paradise has quickly become a favorite destination for travelers seeking adventure, relaxation, and natural beauty. But before you pack your bags and head off on this tropical getaway, there are some essential things you need to know. In this video, we will uncover 10 crucial pieces of information to help make your trip to coastarica an unforgettable one. So let's dive right into it. Number one, safety tips. Coastarica is generally considered safe for tourists. However, like any other destination, certain precautions must be taken. Keep personal belongings secure and avoid carrying large amounts of cash or wearing flashy jewelry. Also, stay informed about local weather conditions as earthquakes and hurricanes can occasionally impact the country. Lastly, familiarize yourself with common scams targeting tourists and remain vigilant during your travels. Number two, currency and costs. In the lush landscapes of coastarica, the colon sea is the currency of choice. A vibrant testament to the nation's rich culture with an exchange rate of approximately 575 colon's to one US dollar. Your adventure through this tropical paradise is facilitated by the dual currency system that also warmly embraces the US dollar. Navigating the financial waters here is a breeze in urban centers where ATNs stand ready to dispense both currencies. Embrace the pure vita lifestyle where the value lies not just in colon's and dollars, but in the richness of experiences. Whether it's savoring a sunset over the Pacific or tracing the trails of a rainforest, coastarica offers a wealth of wonders that transcend the wallet. Number three, best time to visit two main seasons dominate coastarica climate. Dry season, Varano. From December through April and wet season in Varano. From May until November, where the dry season dazzles from December to April, offering sunkiss days perfect for beach escapades and wildlife encounters. Yet it's the green season from May to November that truly captivates with lush landscapes, vibrant wildlife, and tranquil moments amidst afternoon showers. Whether you seek serenity or adventure, coastarica's natural rhythm promises an unforgettable experience in every drop of rain and ray of sunshine. Number four, language and communication. In the heart of Central America, coastarica linguistic landscape is as diverse as its ecosystems. While Spanish reigns a mosaic of English, bribery and Creole dialects echo through its verdant valleys and vibrant cities, dive into local customs with phrases like, Como Esta, How Are You, and Mucho Gusto, Nice to Meet You, which open doors to warm exchanges and cultural insights. For the intrepid traveler, language transcends words. It's found in the exchange of smiles out of farmers' market, the shared laughter in a bustling soda, local eatery, and the silent reverence of nature's wonders. Number five, water quality and food hygiene, tap water in most urban and suburban areas of coastarica is safe to drink. However, it's advisable to confirm its potability with hotel staff or locals before consumption. Outside major cities, stick to bottled or filtered water to minimize risks associated with unfamiliar microorganisms. Be cautious when eating raw fruits and vegetables wash them thoroughly or peel them yourself. Cook meat and fish adequately, particularly seafood dishes served savag style. Number six, health precautions, no mandatory vaccinations are required for entry into coastarica, but ensure your routine immunizations are current. Yellow fever vaccine might be necessary if arriving from infected regions. Mosquitoes carry diseases such as dengue fever and zika virus, so use insect repellent containing deep and wear long sleeves and pants during dawn and dusk hours. Consult to health care professional regarding recommended medications for preventing malaria. Number seven, navigating coastarica options for ground transportation. When exploring coastarica, various ground transportation methods cater to different preferences and needs. Car rentals allow freedom and flexibility, but come with challenges such as poor road conditions, aggressive drivers and expensive parking fees. Off for four-wheel-drive vehicles if venturing off beaten paths or during rainy seasons, domestic flights serve as quick alternatives, connecting larger cities like San Jose, with regional hubs via nature air or Santa Airlines. Bus systems offer extensive routes and reasonable fares, making them ideal for budget conscious travelers, local taxis, and ride-sharing platforms like Uber and Diddy also operate within urban centers, providing door-to-door service. Number eight, electrical system and technology essentials. Coastarica follows North American electricity standards. Using Type A and B plugs, or two flat parallel pins, plus a round grounding pin, no adapter is required for visitors from the United States or Canada. Voltage ranges between 110 volt to 120 volt at a frequency of 60 hertz, compatible with most electronic devices. Nevertheless, protect sensitive equipment against power surges by utilizing surge protectors or universal adapters featuring built-in protection mechanisms, invest in portable chargers and extra batteries for cameras, smartphones, or other gadgets, since charging stations might not always be accessible, especially during extended excursions or remote explorations. Number nine, engaging in responsible tourism, embrace ecological responsibility while traversing Coastarica to preserve its striking landscapes and diverse ecosystems. Follow established trails during nature walks and maintain a safe distance from wild animals to reduce disturbances. Refrain from feeding wildlife, collecting plants, rocks, or souvenir from protected areas. Utilize biodegradable products whenever possible and practice litter reduction by disposing of trash appropriately. Support local businesses offering sustainable goods and services, thus contributing to community development. Finally, choose eco-certified lodging facilities prioritizing energy efficiency, renewable resources, and minimal environmental impacts. Number 10, staying connected through digital means. Stay connected with loved ones back home and manage logistics seamlessly via digital tools despite varying network reliability across Coastarica. Most hotels, restaurants, and cafes provide free Wi-Fi access, yet speeds often land behind those found in developed nations. Obtain a local SIM card, promoted with data packages upon arrival for enhanced connectivity during exploration. Both Claro and Colby offer prepaid solutions tailored to tourists' needs. Ensure compatibility between your device and chosen carrier. Prioritize essential communications over bandwidth consuming tasks like streaming videos or downloading large files. We hope you enjoyed this video. If so, please hit the like button below and make sure you subscribe to see our new future videos. Also, please let us know in the comment section what is your favorite place that everyone should visit. Be blessed and thanks for watching!Hey guys, just wanted to travel to Dachie coming right at you from Costa Rica. With today, the 7 most common tourist scams here in Costa Rica. To win a point out, though, it's perfectly safe to travel to Costa Rica, to visit Costa Rica. These examples are just petty. And if you watched this video, you can avoid all of it. And I can guarantee you'll have a fabulous time here in Costa Rica. If you're new to this channel, I'm a Dutch expert and I've been living in Costa Rica for the last 16 years. I co-own a travel company so I advise my clients every day on tips, tricks, and how to have the best time in Costa Rica. So without further ado, let's get straight into it with common tourist scam number one. Tourist scam number one is the credit card scam. Now, if you must use a credit card in Costa Rica, be aware. So you can pay almost everywhere with your credit card, but be sure to check your statement often because they would happen. So what could happen is that your credit card is stolen. It actually happened to me once at a gas station. However, again, it was a gas station close to La Portuna. It is the Aranabokina area, very popular. And yeah, I was getting gas and sure enough, the next day, I had all charges that I didn't do. So what I do is I make sure that my credit card is never out of sight. So restaurants, wherever you are using your credit card, just make sure that you asked them to charge right in front of you. They have this credit card machine, which is here called the Datafono. So have them charge right in front of you so nobody can steal your credit card information. Talking about gas stations, though, you also want to make sure that they zero out the colonis and the leaders. So here in Kustrika, there's no, you don't get the gas yourself, you're at the mercy of the attendant. So it has been known that they don't zero out, you know, the leaders or the colonis. So be aware. Then tourist scam number two, which suddenly happens a lot, is the Car rental company scam. So what happens is when you book a Car rental online, they announce that this actually happens to with like the bigger international car rental company that you don't expect it from. So they actually advertise super cheap Car rental prices, which I mean, I understand that in many different areas, this happens, but what you don't know, though, is that they do not inform you of any of the charges that actually get added to the price. And the charges are so high that it will double or even more than double the rental price of your car. And this is obviously something that you want to know, not find out when you arrive and when it's already too late to even decide not to go with that Car rental. So what happens here in Costa Rica is there's a liability insurance that the government men have date you to purchase. It is by law, everybody just must have it. Regardless of what your policy from home offers or what your credit card covers, everybody must purchase this mandatory insurance, but most companies won't tell you until you arrive. Then sadly, they add all kinds of charges like booking fees, pick up servers. You see none of the Car rental companies are actually at the airport. So they need to pick you up and take you to their Car rental company. So then when else happens is there's two additional type of insurance that actually covers the car. They don't explain it clearly to you. And then there's all these like booking fees, like online booking fees, and together with the charge of the shuttle, somehow they lump the two additional insurance is that actually cover the car, the mandatory liability insurance with kinds of fees. And this is your price and often it's more than double what then what you thought it would be. So at this moment in time you arrive in Costa Rica and they took you in their shuttle to their Car rental company. And so this is like almost too late to be like objection, but what happened? Not a nice way to start your vacation, right? It's all very confusing and these companies are taking advantage of that. On top of that you also check really well when you get the car and they go over the damage, when you make sure you check the car well and have them, you know, note all the damages because what happens is you come back, they want to charge you for damages that you actually weren't responsible for. Now to avoid all of this, obviously this is not every company. A lot of them sadly take advantage, but I do know I co-owned a travel company, so we've been using the same company for years now. And we've never had any problems with them. They are actually a family-owned company with experience over 30 years. So if you want to play it safe and go with a trusted company I'm happy to suggest mine. Just go in the description below this video. So at the end of the video, go down to the text box below and there will be a link to the company, the Car rental company that I recommend that won't give you any problems. Number three are the scammers at the landlord's with Nicaragua. So if you were a tourist that would like to travel to Nicaragua or your perpetual tourist that needs to do a visa run and needs to go to Nicaragua, you want to be very careful. So these land border crossings can actually be intimidating. A lot is going on and sadly there's a lot of people that take advantage of the, I don't know where, tourists. So what happens is many, many possible things could happen, friendly non-efficient people at the border offering you to help with paying the Kusuriga exit taxes. And they're overcharging big time. And this is something you could just do yourself. It's not hard and it's not expensive. Or again, friendly non-efficient people offering to help you with the entire immigration process. They take your passport and what I've actually heard is there was one person that said yes to this and they gave him back his passport like with little rips. And he goes through and then at Nicaragua, when he arrived in Nicaragua, the official there said, oh no, I can't let you pass because you have a ripped passport. So you have to pay me $100. So obviously those two were working together. They come up with very creative ways to try to get money from tourists. My friend also had a terrible experience. They were trying to rip her off with what she did is she was traveling with her dogs. One of them is a German shepherd that is trained to attack when things go south. So she, when she learned that she was ripped off too. She got out of the car with her German shepherd and threatened them and she actually got her money back. So just be aware. Don't just accept help from anybody. Just make sure to talk to the officials. Number four is the credit card currency scam. So what happens here, it's actually very simple. You always need to check what currency you're being charged in because if for example you purchase something for $30, they will try to sneak in the 30,000 colonists charge which is a lot more money than $30. So always check and ask what currency you're being charged and I suggest always ask to be charged in US dollars. And number five is the currency cash scam. Very, very common. Luckily, obviously we're not talking about a lot of money but still you know you want to just be careful that you are aware of what the currency exchange is because often you pay cash in US dollars and you get changed back but you won't get the correct change back most of the time. And so obviously you can avoid this by just paying with the local colonists. There's ETFs everywhere. So just get some pocket money out, have some colonists so you can avoid these altogether but if you must spend US dollars to be aware of the currency exchange so that you get the right change back. Tourist scam number six is the broken taxi meter. I do have to say though I think it happens less or we hear about it less but it could also be because people are using Uber. Hmm so I don't know but either way you want to be careful. Also side note Uber is illegal here in Kostraka. A lot of people use it anyways but just so you know it is illegal here if you do take an Uber they will ask you to sit in the back. Now back to the broken taxi meter. If you use an official taxi here which is a red taxi at the airport they will be orange and if you get in and the taxi driver says that his meter is broken then you need to get out because this is obviously a way or most likely it will be a way to take advantage of you so they can do the whole you know overcharging or take the long route anything like that. The taxi meter in Spanish is called Maria. So you are aware because sometimes people take advantage of the fact that they'll you know rambulon in Spanish you don't understand and you just get in and go but you if you can ask them like something along the lines. Again I don't think it happens a lot anymore but just something to be aware of when you take a taxi. Down the last line it is small but oh boy can it be annoying and so on necessary. So what happens is it's called the water bottle scam so what happens is the waiter comes out and pretends to open the bottle you know while he's on your way to the table I say oh I'm opening a brand new bottle and often it is not so be sure that when you order bottled water that the waiter just puts it on the table and you're in the one to open it because sadly they reuse bottles of water and then they just put tap water in it. You can drink the tap water here I've been drinking the tap water here for 16 years a lot of people do it it tasted a little different but you get used to it however if you have a sensitive Tommy and you just hear as a tourist I was to just bottle water anyways I mean my risk it's not that expensive better to see them sorry but technically yes you can drink tap water here that's another thing though if you do want to drink the tap water here then be sure to actually ask for tap water because what they do even if you just ask for a glass of water they often just bring you the bottled water so just be clear as to what it is that you actually want because sometimes they might actually overcharge you big time for the bottled water so that's the water bottle scam again guys it is perfectly safe to come to Costa Rica not everybody wants to rip you off it's just things that happens anywhere in the world that you want to be aware of and you know many tours don't even like you know they didn't hear about this or didn't see this video and they had an amazing time but since you're here you're seeing this video you can be aware and you can ensure that you're going to have an amazing time here in Costa Rica it is absolute paradise here check out my channel I have some videos about hidden gems in Costa Rica the unique spots that you know not every tourist gets to see be sure to subscribe to my channel and click that little bell icon so you receive notifications every time I upload a new video especially when it comes to updates on Costa Rica entry requirements and COVID restrictions all right any questions leave them in the comments section below I'm always happy to help I want to thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video ciao buh-davidaThe beautiful province of Guana Caste is all about stunning beaches, incredible landscapes, and golden sun. It draws thousands of visitors each year with its amazing shoreline, excellent surfing and snorkeling, and many more wonderful activities that one can enjoy in the area. From small fishing towns to endless expanses of beachside resorts to long strips of volcanoes, Guana Caste is one of the most intense and memorable destinations in Costa Rica. Hello everyone, and welcome back to the channel. In today's video, we'll tell you about the 10 best places to visit in Guana Caste. But first, be sure to subscribe to the channel for more similar content. Let's dive in! Here's a couple of facts about Guana Caste. Guana Caste's name actually dates back to a real tree which grew in the intersection between the roads that take you to Nikoia and Bacaste is in Costa Rica and revests in Nicaragua, back in the middle of the 17th century. Today the park across from the Catholic Church of Liberia occupies the spot where the historical tree stood. Known as the sunny side of Costa Rica, Guana Caste's climate is unique in the country. Guana Caste receives little rain and consistent heat from November to May, resulting in its ubiquitous tropical dry forest. The region typically records less than 130 days of rainfall annually. 1. Tamarindo Beach Tamarindo Bay is formed by the Union of Play Agrande and Play of Antanas. The Bay is transversed by the Matapolo River and in the southern part of the horizon, you can see a rocky area and Captain Island. It is an area known for its beautiful beaches but also by its mangrove area or the Tamarindo estuary characterized by the vegetation of the area. Oaks savanna, Tamarind and coconut, among others. Within the tourist area, who will find many restaurants with a wide range of international cuisine, bus hotels for all budgets, and a very active nightlife. It is also one of the most famous surfing beaches. Play at Tamarindo has been awarded for many years with the Blue Flag Award, which recognizes the commitment to the environment by providing a clean and safe for visitors. 2. National Park Rincn de la Va The National Park Rincn de la Va has an area of 14,083 hectares. It is a volcanic massive of nine cones and a lagoon called La Helgueros. The park can be accessed through both Liberia and Upoal Buenos Areas. The massive has two distinct sectors, Las Palas and Santa Maria. First includes a set of trails that take you to various points of the volcano, including the path to the craters, Vaun Seabuck and Rincn de la Va. The path to Las Palas, the trail to the Falls La Cangraya and Esconditas, the path to the White River Pool, and the trail to Fumerals and Mud Volcanoes. The second sector, Santa Maria, includes a set of paths among which are, the path to the waterfall enchanted forest, the path to the Palas sector, the path to the Pales of Cold Water, and the trail to the hot springs. Three, National Park Marino Las Palas. The National Park Marino Palas is located in the Nacoya Peninsula and includes several attractions that will catch your eye as carbon beach, ventanis and Langosta, the Moro and Hermosa Hills, and Mangrove San Francisco and ventanis. It is a place of special importance because in this sector spawns the Leatherback Turtle, hence the name of the National Park which translates to the Leatherback Marine National Park. The Leatherback is the world's largest sea turtle and is in danger of extinction. Costa Rica protects these turtles to keep their populations healthy and growing number of individuals. Four, Samara Beach. Samara Beach is a bay about 4 kilometers long with clear sand, gentle waves, and an area of Mangroves. It is recognized as one of the safest and most beautiful beaches in Costa Rica. On the horizon is Corra Island, right in front of the Punta Indio, where one can spot an area of coral reefs. The vegetation of the area is landlocked, so you can appreciate trees like the men's and yo, coconut palms and creepers such as beach bean plants among others. This beach, like Tamerindo, has received the Blue Flag Award for its commitment to the environment. In addition to its beautiful beach, the town of Samara offers many attractions and water activities such as surfing, fishing, snorkeling, diving, etc. Five, No Sara Beach and Guiones Beach. These beautiful beaches are characterized by their size and clear sand in addition to its strong waves. No Sara Beach has a length of 3 kilometers and forms a beautiful mangrove in the Nassara River. One of the most outstanding tourist attractions in the area is Nassara Point, formed by a set of rocks where the waves break. Both Guiones and Nassara beaches have a good tourist offer that will allow you to enjoy horseback riding and boat trips through the estuary. Their strong waves make these beaches an ideal place for surfing. Thanks to their beautiful landscape, they have become a home for yoga and spiritual tourism. Six, Hornias e Mirovala is volcano. Mirovala's volcano is located in the Guana Caste Volcanic Mountain Range at an altitude of 2028 ms and m. It is protected within the protected area. Near the town of Guayabo, several places offer hot springs of a yellowish color, laden with volcanic minerals to help you relax. In addition to its natural attractions, the Mirovala's volcano is also used for geothermal energy because it is one of the seven active volcanoes in the country. In the Hornias sector you can walk by the volcanic crater where you can see hot mud, fumeroles, and sulfur rivers while enjoying the health benefits of these minerals. Seven, Lano's Del Cortes Waterfalls Costa Rica is a country rich in natural beauty and because of its many rivers you can find beautiful waterfalls. One of the most beautiful in the country is the series of waterfalls Lano's Del Cortes. They are located near the town of Vagasas, on the way to Liberia. To enter the place, one must detour on a dirt road for a few kilometers and walk through a transitional forest. Among the peculiarities of this waterfall is the white sand beach that is formed by the sedimentation of the river and the pool of clear water to enjoy the sun and nature. Eight, Cavernas de Berra Honda The Berra Honda National Park in addition to offering several trails within the dry forest also features one of the most beautiful caves in the country. It is a cave located a few kilometers from Nekoya and 450 meters high. Therefore, in order to visit, one must descend several meters on a vertical ladder. The cave system of Berra Honda combines ancient coral reefs that emerged from normal lifting of the tectonic plates and the stalactite and stalagmite formations. Although the cave system has not yet been fully explored, one of which is open to the public, Velvet Sector. Nine, Santa Rosa National Park Located in the northern part of Guanaquaste, Santa Rosa National Park protects a very important area of dry forest, characterized for being unique in Central America. It also has two sectors, first the Alago and Santa Rosa. Each has beautiful beaches rarely visited, among which are the Haxial, Danta, Hokuido, Santa Elena, Blanca Nuranjo and Nancite. The park is recognized for its wildlife. Thus, in the vicinity there is a biological station that monitors animals such as white-tailed deer, howler and white-faced monkeys, sea turtles, reptiles and amphibians, among others. On the other hand, the park has great historical importance for the country, because here is where we find Casona de Santa Rosa, for the Battle of Santa Rosa occurred in the monument to the heroes of 1856 and 1955. Ten, Reads and Archaeological Site El Ferralon The Reads sector and its surroundings are rarely visited by foreign tourists, but it is an area rich in tourist attractions. The City of Reads is located in the plains of Guanaquaste, on the road to Liberia. Some of the activities available in the area are, rafting on the Coro B.C. River, hikes in the Paiato volcano and visit the archaeological site El Ferreon, which has great historical importance for the petroglyphs located on the stone wall near a river. It is a place that surely allows you to connect with the history of our people. That was all from us today folks, or more similar content, make sure to subscribe to the channel, see you in the next one.This is Costa Rica and so is this and so is this. We're Jamie and Skylar and we recently spent eight days road tripping in this ridiculously beautiful country and while Costa Rica may be small it's absolutely huge on adventure with countless hikes, waterfalls, beaches and views packed in a country the size of West Virginia. We spend our eight days in Costa Rica trying to see as much of it as possible and in this video series we're going to take you along for the ride from the scenic hikes to the terrifying lows. Three. Oh my gosh, I'm going to get somewhere else. And everywhere in between. This first doesn't even have rails on it. The first day of our Costa Rica adventure began at the Orlando Airport where we'd be boarding a direct flight on spirit airlines to Costa Rica's capital and by far its largest city San Jose. Now Spirit gets a bad rat from some people because it's a budget carrier, the cabins aren't the most spacious and you don't get an included carry on bag or drinks and snacks but we got our flights with Spirit for just around $220 round trip per person and we usually have pretty good luck with them and this flight was no exception as we boarded on time and touched down in San Jose around 20 minutes before our scheduled arrival time. As you can probably tell I was pretty excited to be back in Costa Rica. So after around a 2.5 hour flight from Orlando and about 40 minutes in customs we are now waiting for our shuttle to pick up our rental car and then we'll be on the road. Now while we show you a bit of footage driving through San Jose we want to point out that we reserved our 8 day rental car ahead of time through price line for just over $220. We did have to pay an additional 200 or so for liability insurance as our Geico policy did not cover rental cars abroad. We did not have to purchase collision insurance though as we booked the car using our Chase business card which has built in collision coverage. A pretty amazing feature which has saved us a lot of money. Budget did initially try to give us a 2 wheel drive vehicle but after pointing out that we had clearly paid for a 4 wheel drive SUV they did give us a vehicle with all wheel drive which as you'll see later would really come in handy. Thankfully we made it out of San Jose before dark but our adventure didn't end there as we'd still have around 40 miles of narrow mountain roads to get to our first Airbnb. Ok so we're stopping because we have to wait for traffic to come to this bridge. But in typical Costa Rica fashion even while waiting in nighttime traffic we had a waterfall view. It's snowing is pretty bumpy. After a slow 2 hour drive through some less than ideal driving conditions we finally reached our country Airbnb which made us feel right at home. But before hitting the bed we made a quick drive to nearby Venetia to grab some groceries at Economas and perhaps the best fast food chicken we've ever tasted at Poyolandia. Hi Jimmy I'm talking about how good the chicken is. 12 pieces of this chicken cost us 6 dollars and 60 cents plus this drink. Great deal. Good morning guys this is our second day here in Costa Rica. It's 5.30 in the morning which is much earlier than we normally get up but as you can see it is very much daylight already and since the sunset is around 5 o'clock in the evening here we gotta get our days going early. Now we're eating a couple of the pastries that we got from the grocery store last night for breakfast as well as some instant cappuccino because we knew we'd be on the road today before the coffee shops open and we didn't know if our Airbnb would actually have a coffee machine or not. Now we don't know what either these are called but we asked the staff working what their favorite was and they chose this one and then we also chose this one because it looked like it might have caramel in it. We're gonna try the staff favorite first. Very good. Let's see what's inside. Very flaky. It's sweet but it's very good. How cute is this place. It's too bad we can't stay here a few more days. The sky is locking it up so we can head out. Bye little house. Alright, here we go. If you're enjoying this video so far and want to see many more Costa Rican adventures and more Costa Rican dogs, be sure to subscribe to our channel. It is day two here in Costa Rica and we are now two for two for arriving in Costa Rica and having to drive in the dark in the rain to our Airbnb. And in the mountains. And in the mountains but we made it and we cannot wait to show you more of this beautiful country. Our Sunday morning drive had his heading southbound towards the Poas volcano, a nearly 9,000 foot active volcano which has erupted 40 times since 1828. Along this drive we found a sign for a different waterfall at nearly every turn but we had one particular destination in mind and that was Cascadas, Posa, Azul. A group of several waterfalls including the largest waterfall located within the Bajo Stel Toro region which is known for being one of the most remote and beautiful areas of Costa Rica. After a few miles of driving down some pretty sketchy but extremely beautiful roads, we were ready for the first of many big adventures on this trip. Now as you can see there are a ton of waterfalls on this property here. We have limited time today though so we are going to focus on getting to the last waterfall because we know we want to make it there and then along the way back we will show you as many as we can. Oh my gosh, already got mud on myself. I didn't even look like it was that muddy but I guess it is. I would say there is more restrooms and changing rooms, just a short walk from the reception area and they also have these cabins. We can hear people down there. I think that's the first waterfall. There might be a slide down that way. I'm sure Skyler would want to go down all the way back. On the way back. Yep. Alright. So for my research it sounds like you can easily spend an entire day here and I already see why we have already passed trails to probably three or four different waterfalls. Each of them seemed to require a little bit of a hike so if you want to visit every one of the waterfalls on this property I can see how you could easily spend an entire day here. So the wide grassy path has now turned into a more narrow rocky path that goes into the forest. The stairs have started, I did read that coming back up these stairs is the hardest part of the whole trail. I think we're really thankful for these hiking sticks right now because these stairs are muddy and there's a lot of them so the sticks definitely going to help us stay upright and hopefully save our needs as well. What is happening across the river? You get to go on that? Yep. What? Oh my gosh, I'm so excited. As you can probably tell I did pretty much all the planning on this trip and I think Jamie is going to be in for a lot of surprises. Oh my gosh, this is crazy. So Skylar just informed me that we're going to get to go across the river on this thing. It's not that far of a fall. Oh my gosh. Now you can also go down there and walk across on the rocks but you know we're going to do this. Alright get in. Oh my gosh. Are we going to do it together or just go down? No, together. Together? Yeah. We could do it one at a time. I'm not going to be kind of cool. Okay, we'll do it one at a time. I'm not in here yet. Oh my gosh. Piece of cake, right? I don't know, we'll see whenever I'm over the middle part of it. And you go fast here please. Hey, I'm going to enjoy it. I think we both could have fit in here but it would have been a tight fit. Alright, so I am stopped in the middle over this river. Here's a view from my little basket on the one side. Here's Skyler over there, recording something. And there's Skyler's side of the river. Now I got to pull myself over there. This is a pretty cool surprise. I had no idea that we'd be able to do this out here today. Obviously Skyler knew and he was keeping it a secret. Let's get a little hard at the end. Alright. I am out and now it's the back over there. I think I got Skyler. He's really much faster than I was. Oh look, he made it. It's a nice ride, huh? With the river crossing behind us, it was time to hike the rest of the way to the furthest waterfall, which unfortunately meant climbing up and down a lot more stairs. I hope we're here in November. It's like the end of the rainy season. Everything is so green. All these rocks are just full of moss. Just so you guys all know, this is what the stairs you got to deal with look like. They're pretty good stairs. Some of them are taller than others and they're definitely wet and muddy. But going up on what I'd say is much safer than coming down because coming down you have the slip-race. I would say they're not too physically taxing. Just take your time and be careful on the mud to make sure you don't fall. We made it to the big lookout point, which makes me think we are pretty close to the big falls already. We'll find out soon. There's a lot of leaf cutters. Oh, leaf cutters? Okay. You can probably see a lot of moving leaves down there. That's because they're being carried by ants, which I believe are known as leaf cutters. We do remember from our last time in Costa Rica that these ants definitely do bite and you do not want to walk through them. So if you see these guys, make sure you step over them. We made it to the bottom of all these stairs and hopefully no more stairs till the last waterfall. I think there's going to be some more. You think so? Yeah. We almost there yet. We're going to be close. We can't go down too much further, can we? So eventually the stairs did seem to end, but as you can see, it's more just natural stairs now. A lot of rocks and roots. But the good news is I'm not sure if you can hear, but the waterfall is getting pretty loud, so we're thinking we're close. All right, we seem to have made it to some sort of clearing now. I hope that means the waterfall is close. Stimmy is not as optimistic as I am, but I think it's right around the corner. You see it? Awesome. I thought you were going to show us. That's the polished waterfall we've ever seen in person by far, right? I know you're probably beginning to question it for a while, but what do you think? Where is it? Yeah, it's worth it. Oh my god. Yeah. Just feel that, man. Yep, that's what we came here for. At 508 feet tall, the Caterata Cayeda Nyeve Yipaz was easily the tallest waterfall we've seen in Costa Rica. But just a few days later, we visit one that was even taller, so make sure to tune into our future Costa Rica episodes so you don't miss that adventure. This is a massive waterfall. Skyler went down a little bit closer to the waterfall. Skyler looks so tiny compared to this giant waterfall, but I'm hanging out here just enjoying this from the falls. I will go down and join him shortly though. This is what Skyler lives for. Look at that waterfall. So I came down to where Skyler was, and now I am getting pretty wet. I just want to try again here and touch the waterfall. He got even closer to the fall, so I think we're probably going to be soaked. Oh, really wet here. But pretty freaking cool view. I can already tell. We want him to come back that he is soaked. So we started this day not even knowing for sure if we'd be able to come to this waterfall because we did pass a sign saying that it was closed on Sunday. Thankfully it wasn't though, and that sign may be part of the reason why we actually have this place all to ourselves. And as you can see, it is massive and it is awesome. Now the hike here was pretty challenging, and I was beginning to question whether or not it was worth it. This hike was a lot of work, but it's definitely worth it. But as soon as I saw this waterfall, I knew it was. Now I'm not sure, but I think what we went across the river on that part is just a path where that waterfall is. Alright, we'll see you at the top. Taking a quick break, getting mentally prepared for these stairs. There's a lot of them. Yeah. After a few minutes of exhausting, mostly uphill hiking, we arrived at the Miradoras, a great spot to snap a few photos. Alright, we made it back to the little screen crossing here, which is 155 meters from the waterfall. And it looks like back there where thinking is a lookout. Hopefully we can see the top of the waterfall from the sea. I'd say this is the top of the waterfall. Now if this hike is a little too challenging for you, you won't be able to see the waterfall from the bottom, but as long as you're not afraid of heights, you will be able to see it from the top. The cart is occupied, coming over, so we're taking this route back. There you got three people in there. Really destined to get to that cart. Alright, we've got some more waterfalls to show you. And we're happy to inform you that the remaining waterfalls were all much easier to access. And while none of them compared in size to our first waterfall stop, they still could play to offer, including a spot for a skiler to get in his shower for the day. With two stops down, it was time to move on to number three, which offered a smaller waterfall and a nice calm spot for swimming. And for those who are a little more adventurous, it's here that you can also do some cliff jumping. An opportunity which skiler can never pass up. Alright, this is a little bit scary. But the first of several cliff jumps on this trip in the books. It was time to move on to waterfall number four. So this is another pool that you can swim in. Like we said earlier, you could stay here all day if you wanted to. So there is a water slide. But as you can see, there is not a whole lot of water flowing down it. And it's also made out of concrete. It looks more painful than fun I think. I know, I didn't do it because I was going to be good for my back. We got more waterfalls still today. We got a big hike tomorrow. And this looks like it could be a potential tailbone injury. Yeah, very fast. Going on to the next spot. Our final waterfall at cascadas, Poso Azul, was the smallest of the five, but also the closest to the entrance. While it was a beautiful and calming spot, we were starting to get a bit tired and hungry. So it was time to be on our way. So just as we finished our waterfall, hikes had started raining. Our timing couldn't have been much better. Now the food that they're cooking at this place does smell amazing, but I think we're going to hit a little bit down the road towards our next waterfall destination. Oh my god! Woo! I'm going to try to find some food along the way. I think the sign that said it was closed Sunday was for blue falls and not the actual waterfall that we just came from. So, it makes a lot more sense to us now. Yeah. Can't go to blue falls on Sunday, but you can't go to Azul. What's the one we went to? It was like the Azul. I don't know how to look at the name of it. The one we went to had Azul in the name, which also means blue, right? So, use it a mix them up. Well, we may have been quite confused about where we had come from. We did know exactly where we were going, at least for our next stop. So it's still raining. We decided to stop off at this coffee shop that we passed by on our way to the next waterfall. And we have the view of the volcano. It is so pretty up here. Ready for coffee? Although there weren't many options for coffee in this remote area of Costa Rica, the reviews for this spot were good. And almost anything would be better than the instant cappuccino we had earlier in the morning. Our first real Costa Rican coffee on the trip. What do you think? Better than our cappuccino this morning. Since we can't survive on coffee alone, we decided to order some traditional Costa Rican casados too, which came out looking amazing and tasting even better. Well, for now, it is only sprinkling. We are going to head out to our next waterfall and we'll see what the conditions are like when we get there. So it is now pouring down rain. Time ain't worked in our favor today, because yeah, we would have been at the bottom of that waterfall and still had to hike up all those muddy stairs. Like a rock, would you see it up there? Yeah, I do. Oh my gosh. Hot hole? Yeah. We're on over a bridge. I think that we're probably driving up that road, right? Yeah. Oh my gosh. That looks straight up. Well, driving to the Costa Rican mountains can be a bit intimidating. It can also be a whole lot of fun. Provided you have a four-wheel drive vehicle with good ground clearance and or not in any sort of hurry. Would you drive in the Costa Rican mountains or would you stick to buses and taxis? Let us know in the comments. This bird doesn't even have rails on it. It's open. What a task of day truth is. I don't know. I don't see. No? Yeah, why? I don't know that I want to find out. I don't even know any of those words mean. Plus, Skyler uses our Google Translator. I want to show you this bridge again that we have to drive over. It has absolutely no railings. We got to figure out what test good day true chas means. Oh, just like a fish for me? Trout fishing. All right. I said we can probably skip the trout fishing. Yeah. We can skip the trout fishing. All right. No trout fishing for us, I guess. We'll try to find another waterfall instead. Let's go back over this bridge. Hopefully, please. All right. So this next waterfall stop, Skyler has GPS coordinates. Sometimes those are great. Sometimes those lead us to who knows where. So stick around to find out where we're going. At least we got two hours before it gets dark. Yeah, we've got time and it's only supposed to be two minutes away. Oh, back to the rocky road. All right. Here we go. From concrete to rock. We're heading for some wiggle in the round. So we are currently turning around. So these coordinates, I guess, led us to a farm. There's no sign of this waterfall anywhere. This is the **** road I've ever seen in my life. And there's this farm at the end of it on the side of the volcano. That was pretty cool. This drive was very pretty, but quite muddy and bumpy. But still, Skyler loves driving around on these roads. The more remote the better. Oh, this is crazy. I can't think we've ever come across this before. Hi. You never know what you might see back road, mountain driving, and coastering. Yeah. We're going to have to make these under the wind. Holy crap. We're taking this for Skyler and we would like never go to any of these places because I'd be so nervous to drive over them. I would see it and just be like, all right, we're turning around. Even when it's raining, it's so pretty here. Look. Oh, pesky day true, trust. Not a waterfall. I don't know why it was a full one. There's another time over there and that one has a fish. Oh, yeah. Yeah. All right, well, let's go right. So at this point, we're pretty much just driving around aimlessly. Basically, we just decided we'd keep driving down this main road. Hit one of the other. Water falls up, but then we saw a sign for a national park. And it looked like the road to the national park also led into the mountains. And we thought it'd be cool to check out. So we remember following GPS coordinates to just following signs on the road. We're about to find out if these signs are even accurate. I don't know if you can tell how bumpy it is. I don't know, is it going to lead us to a national park? What do you think? I mean, that's what the signs say. It is what the signs say. I don't really like the international park. I haven't seen a house for like two miles. Right. It would have been absolutely no other signs. It looks like the road ends ahead. So I'm going to let you know what we find. All right. So this led to a sign that said camping and volcano views. The map doesn't show that there's even a road here. So I probably shouldn't take it. I kind of want you. I know you do, but gosh, without a little bit more planning, we're probably going to have to turn around. So GPS coordinates, we struck out following red signs. We struck out. I don't think we struck out on either of them, actually. They were not where we planned on going, but I'm not saying that we still didn't have a good time, but they didn't get us to where we thought we were going to go. Slow, my new waterfalls are ready. I'm honestly not even that excited about going and seeing one especially in the rain. Yeah, I'll just go do something else. We found another waterfall. This is not quite as big or as pretty. While we had to give up on waterfall chasing for this day, we weren't too disappointed. As we knew, we had several more waterfall adventures ahead of us, all of which will be included in our future Costa Rica episodes. And if you want to make sure that you don't miss out on them, be sure to subscribe to the Explorcation and turn the notifications on. I think we decided that we are going to head towards our Airbnb because it's almost a two hour drive. And if something pops up along the way that draws us in, then we'll stop. I think this sign is up for the accurate depiction of the roads. Definitely going into the clouds. I thought we were at the top of the volcano and then we just came here to go straight up for another two miles. Wow, we are in a cloud. There are these mountain cows out here. That's crazy to see them. I'm not even driving, but I'm like tensing all my muscles just because of the driving conditions. So thank you for driving out of my way. You never get to see any of these places. Look at this cow. I mean, how do you get up here? So the fog finally cleared up just long enough to get this view from the side of the road. Look at that. Wow. Even cloudy and stormy. Just gorgeous. Now after 4 p.m. and only around an hour before sunset, we'd have to get moving to avoid having to drive through San Jose in the dark because as much as we love driving through the Costa Rican countryside, we hate driving through San Jose. I was forget how much I love driving in these mountains, whether it's Costa Rica or Puerto Rico or San Jose. Oh, you can. Oh, yeah. That was close. In 200 meters, continue straight. Due to the less than ideal driving conditions and a couple of traffic jams, we didn't make it to our Airbnb before dark, but we did make it there in one piece. So we ended up stopping by a grocery store and grabbing these taco things out of the freezer. We decided to just come here and cook them up because honestly, we were a little excited about getting here and we'll show you why after we're done eating. You did pretty good. Ticitos are a good decision. So this is why we were really excited to get to our Airbnb because it has a view of San Jose. But that does mean we had to go through San Jose traffic, which can be crazy, but it was totally worth it. And I think in the morning, we're probably going to have a view of some mountains over there. Good morning. We woke up to all sorts of nature sounds, birds, chickens, dogs, and this view of the mountain. Sky says that's the one that we're going to be hiking today. That looks pretty high. When we got up this morning, you could see the peak, but already the clouds have moved in. And over here is a view of the city. We pretty much booked this Airbnb for this view, but after we got here and saw how nice it was for $50 a night, we kind of wish we were staying a few more days. But once again, we're going to have to get going early for a hike. We're good to head out. Alright. Our third day in Costa Rica started off in search of the trailhead de Pico Blanco. Our starting point for our hike to the nearly 8,000 foot high peak. Once again, we were relying on GPS coordinates, which let us down another bad road to another pretty remote area. So we drove up this crazy road and we talked to a nice woman up there who said that we can park our car here. Thank goodness though that Skylar has that translator app. So we do think some people probably drive further up on this road, but I'm glad we didn't try it. Oh yeah, look at this area here. It's pretty rough. So we were a little bit bummed that we didn't find walking sticks at this trailhead like we did on our hike yesterday, but it didn't take us too long of hiking up this trail to find some pretty good ones on the side of the path. So we're about half a mile into our hike to Pico Blanco. It's a five and a half mile loop trail and depending on who you ask, it's either moderately difficult or very difficult, probably depending on your experience level and also the conditions of the trail, how muddy it is and how much it has been raining that day. So we did just need a mountain biker on this path. He didn't speak any English, but we could understand that he said Pico Blanco was that tall peaks straight in front of us, so we're definitely on the right path. We are in the end of rainy season right now, but it seems that it stays pretty dry in the morning generally and then sometime in the afternoon, you do get some pretty heavy rains. We're starting this hike just a little after 8 a.m. and it's supposed to be a four hour hike or so, so that would put us back around noon and hopefully we'll beat the rains. We definitely do not want to be hiking down the mountain when it's pouring rain. So this part of the trail, about two thirds of a mile in, is actually downhill and concrete. So we're definitely making some pretty good times here this section and we got a pretty amazing view over there as well. So this section of the hike around three quarters of a mile in is so beautiful. You got country views to the right and city views to the left both are equally scenic. Alright guys, we are about a mile into the hike now and here's the view we got of the city. We're getting a little higher and the views are getting a little better. And even looking straight forward is really beautiful. We just love this trail so far and there's Jamie way ahead of me because I've been stopping to take shots at the scenery and she is trying to maintain a pace which is probably good idea. So we've come to our first fork here. This is a path that we have to go down and to the left is another little trail. We have no idea where that goes. Alright, we've encountered our first almost straight up section. Now it is starting to feel like a hike. Definitely some really steep spots. A lot of clay. You can tell it's rained pretty recently but it's not super slick. It would definitely get slick real quick if it were to start raining though. So keeping our fingers crossed that the rain is hold off today. Now those of you who know our channel know that typically Jamie does talk a lot more in our videos but she is just focused on keeping up a good pace on this trail and I do not blame her because we do not want to be coming back in the rain. Jamie, mile and a half in, what are you thinking of the hike so far? It's a little more challenging than I expected it to be starting off. We haven't even reached the loop yet. As you can tell I am definitely pretty out of breath too so I can't say it's not challenging but also we are trying to keep a really good pace. So I'd say we're hiking a little faster than we normally would and we're filming. So the combination of trying to hike fast and filming along the way definitely makes it a little harder. Makes you burn a little more energy than you probably would otherwise. I'm still enjoying it though. You do definitely want to wear your best hiking shoes on this hike because you will want that extra grip. Jamie also does recommend a hiking stick and I think I agree with that. This guy that has let us to the loop trail where we have to decide to go left or right. All trails says it's better to go left. If you keep going left it's a much more direct route to the top of the mountain. But if you just want the easiest way and you don't care about seeing the whole loop you could take the right route up and back down. And if you just really like to torture yourself I suppose you could take the left route up and down. So far the first section of the actual loop portion of the trail is very narrow. A little overgrown not too bad though. Definitely a little bit muddy not too slick yet. Overall not too bad. We reached a little bit of a clearing here. Looks like we'll have some views off to the left. We're probably about a mile and two thirds into the hike now. As you can see we got some more great views of San Jose. And the trails actually leveled out a little bit. Yeah hopefully we can really make some good time through this section because we know there's going to be much harder and slower sections coming up. Now as we continue to make our way towards the top of Pico Blanco we do want to mention another reason that we were really trying to complete this hike quickly. And that's because we'd be driving all the way to Uvita after the hike and we really wanted to take the scenic route. Windings are the inland mountains of Costa Rica. Route 2 is known for being one of the most beautiful drives in the entire country but also one of its most dangerous. In fact a section of route 2 between Cartaggo and San Ezigro is known as Saro de la Muerte or the Hill of Death as its steep winding roads or visibility and frequent rock falls can make it incredibly dangerous during poor weather conditions and at night. And since we were only willing to navigate the Hill of Death in the daylight we'd have to get the drive started early. So we're about two miles into the hike now I think and from the review we read a lot of people said once you get towards the top of the mountain you're probably not going to get many good views but we are getting close to the top of the mountain and look at these views that we got. If these aren't good I don't know what is. Best view of the hike yet. Yeah. Oh man I wish we had more time to enjoy it. I think the reason people say you don't get good views towards the top is because often times there are low clouds if we are two three hours later in the day. We probably wouldn't have a view right now but we really timed this right I think. Glad we got on the trail early. I think we're coming up to the two mile mark here which means we gotta be getting close to the summit. We can walk in through this really thick brush and these are just here. How cool is that? Giant palo plants. Yeah. We weren't expecting that. No. We're starting to get overgrown again here. We've been seeing a lot of this in the last quarter mile or so but there's also blood of flies flying all over even though it's overgrown. It's still pretty scenic. This kind of came out of nowhere. I was not expecting this but check this out. Oh wow yeah. What do you think? My gosh. You got flowers over to your left. This is a great view. And then look to the right. Wow. Yeah. I don't know if you can see this on camera at all but we can see our breath when we breathe up here which I know the temperature isn't cold enough like that happens all the time where we're from in the Midwest in the winter where you can see your breath when it's really cold. It can't be less than 70 degrees or so right here. We can definitely see our breath. If any of you out there know why that is let us know. It's starting to get a lot more humid. I think we're getting into the section of the trail that is frequently in the clouds because even though it's not actively raining the trail is getting much more wet. The pace has come down. Last mud. The last little bit of this hike to the summit probably less half-mile or so I'd say. The sky is pretty steep and we're having to go pretty slow and we're still really out of breath. Lots of down trees in this section. So you do have areas like this on the trail that are a little tricky. You've got to kind of use some climbing skills but they're pretty few on far between. So we're starting to be able to see big patches of sky ahead. That's a good sign. Oh. I think we made it. Look above you. Oh. Oh. Oh my god, I had no idea. I don't know how happy. That was kind of anti-climactic. I didn't even realize we were here for the first 10 seconds. You're just catching your breath, huh? Yeah. Thank goodness for that sign. We do not read Spanish but we're pretty certain that that says we've reached the summit or the peak. Something along those lines. It doesn't look like there's much for views around here. So we probably won't be spending too much time here. Just long enough to scarf down a cliff bar and some water and start heading back. Yeah. All right. Good job. Good job to you. I would say this is a difficult hike. I would. I'd say it's the second or third hardest hike we've ever done. Because of the chips. What are these things are? And these. Incliffs bars. Yeah, I don't know what that is but we're definitely not taking it. Now to leave to La Carria, East San Miguel. Overall, it took about two and a half hours to hike 2.8 miles up the mountain. But we agreed that we probably could have done it in under two if we hadn't been filming. And since the hike back would involve more downhill hiking and less filming, we were hopeful that it would go much more quickly. And head back down the mountain. All right. Skyler left his stick at the top. But thankfully we did not get too far. Very. It became me long to realize I was missing something. Yeah, something that you're definitely going to need on the way down. Yes. Because look at this mud. It does look like the clouds are starting to roll in. Thank goodness we're on our way down now. So far the hike down has been very muddy. But I think we're keeping a pretty good pace. It's much less strenuous. We're not breathing heavy like at all. But more muddy. Definitely more muddy. Definitely got to be careful. You don't want to slip in the mud and fall off the edge of the mountain. I'd say coming down is easier but also more dangerous. If we can maintain this pace the rest of the way back, we'll be back in an hour. But I have a feeling it's not going to be all like this. Lots of ferns in this section of the trail. Oh, I love ferns really so much. Yeah, we've reached the fern-golly portion of the trail. Kind of steep, kind of muddy, but pretty leisurely. Yeah. Oh, wow, we got another awesome viewpoint up here. Oh my god. Check out this deep point. Haven't checked all trails in a while. I'm guessing about half a mile down from the summit. Yeah, so even though we are in the clouds, you can still see the city very well. Yeah. Man, I feel like we are hiking this on the perfect day though. Yeah. We had great views the whole way. It's nice and cool up here. We got in the clouds a little bit, but no rain. Even if it does rain, hopefully we'll be well over halfway down by the time it does. This might change, but so far, the trail down is significantly less strenuous. So I think that if somebody wanted to hike up to that point, you could go out and back on this side of it. It wouldn't be near a strenuous, but I also don't think you would see near as many great views along the way. We've reached our first nice lap part of the hike on the side. Yeah. Yeah, this is a nice change. Another nice change about the hike back was that we spotted several red paint trail markers on the trees, which let us know we were on the right path back without having to constantly check our all trails app. Hello, can you go? Oh my god. I don't want to go this way. All right, I made it. More graceful than me. I'm going to go very graceful. It's a good news. Not only did we find another trail marker, but we found a nice view right next to it. This is another area that is just totally different from the rest of the hike. I love this area. So cool. Yeah, it's like you're in a different world. So sections of this trail going down do have this barbed wire fence directly to the left of you. So you want to be extra careful not to slip because if you were to slip and fall into that barbed wire, that would be bad news. I guess it'd be better than falling off the edge of a cliff, but it still would be far from good. You could easily go off the edge. Yeah. Yeah, that'd be a bit of a fall. Good thing the barbed wire would stop you. I don't know where maybe it's mile and I have to two miles down the mountain now and we're starting to hear some running water. It almost sounds like a waterfall. You obviously know we've already seen a lot of waterfalls and plan on seeing a lot more while we're here in Costa Rica, but based on the sound of it, we might get to see one that we weren't expecting to see. Just a little stream. All right. Well, I'm glad I wore my waterproof socks right now. Jamie's going to have to try to not walk in the water. She doesn't compare to the waterfalls we saw yesterday, but it's still a nice unexpected surprise. So on this side, you don't have use of the city, but you have use of this. So I think we were like somewhere up there, probably in the thick of those trees. I know initially we said there's not as good of views on this side of the loop, but we've really hit a section here where we got some really nice views for us. Pretty extended period of time. We're going over there. Another great view. Yeah, these do not get old. Nope. It's nice that they're scattered along the trail too. We got to hide here far. Might just do a few thinking, oh, that we're closer. All right, guys, we completed the loop. We made it back. Yeah. Well, we're not done yet. We still got to hike the non-loop portion back to our vehicle, but we've definitely completed the hard part. Up up. Yeah. So I think we only got a little over a half mile to go now, and we just heard our first thunder. Thankfully, it did sound like it was a ways away. We definitely could still get rained on, but if we do, it would definitely suck, but we're very confident we're going to get back in one piece. We are almost back to the car, and look at these clouds. We are hearing some thunder. The rain will be coming soon. I'm going to have to get the case. Yeah, keep hearing that thunder. Yeah. At this point, I think we'd both rather be walking uphill than down. So pretty steep hill ahead, but that's OK. I know. One thing we didn't mention is that we didn't see any other people on our hike. Maybe there's a reason for that. Maybe we're crazy for hiking this trail when we did during the rainy season. I don't know, but thankfully everything went really well. That is our rental straight ahead. It is still there. There is a chicken under it, but it's there. All right. That's great. We have a chicken here. There's still one chicken here. As crazy as it sounds, the second we got back to the car, it started sprinkling. Yeah. I think they said we got back just in time. All right, guys. So we thought we were making a really good pace. We thought we'd be back by noon or maybe one at the latest, but we didn't get back till 2 o'clock because we didn't get back to the car till 2. We're not going to be able to do the drive through the mountains. We're not going to be able to go on the death hill because we would be driving through it in the dark, which sounds very unsafe from what I've read. We're hoping that we still might be able to drive that mountain road on the way back to San Jose, but we're really hoping you enjoyed this hike and we'll see you in Uvita. While it doesn't have the mountain views that you'll find along route 2, the drive along route 34 is pretty beautiful in its own right. Now, because we did much of this drive in the dark and we were quite tired, we didn't film a whole lot of this drive, but we did still catch some pretty great views. Along the way, we grabbed some delicious key lime pie and much needed coffee at CaffeCitos and Oratina. We also stopped by an amazing fruit stand somewhere along route 34, where we sampled and purchased some tropical fruits. With the end of daylight approaching, we just had to drop by La Fiesta del Marisco. I was just telling Jamie how awesome it would be if we could find a bar along the beach to catch sunset because sunset is in like 15 minutes and then we came along this place. Perfect. Now we couldn't have timed it much better. The beaches here are so different than what we're used to. They are dark beaches. We've gathered at our sunset drinks. We asked if they had any fresh juice here and they had a congeuse from. I asked the waiter what his favorite was and he recommended pineapple juice with peppermint and I have never tried it before and it is delicious. After enjoying a couple drinks, along with our first beachfront sunset of the trip, we were back on the road and after grabbing a quick dinner just outside of Dementicao, we arrived at our Airbnb in the beautiful beach town of Iwita, where you can continue with us on our Costa Rican adventure by clicking here right now. Thanks for watching!Remake and Kim, we spent the last six weeks exploring Costa Rica and you are the share with you our favorite places in this paradise country. So here's our top 10 for Costa Rica. This is freaking magical! If you're looking for lush jungle tropical beaches and abandoned wildlife, there's no better place on Earth than Costa Rica. Let's start off with one of the country's crown jewels, Manuel Antonio National Park. If we had to name one place you can't miss, this would be it. Manuel Antonio has it all, beautiful rainforest and beaches but also the best wildlife in the country. In just a couple hours we spotted macaues, iguanas, dozens of monkeys, and enough sloths to make you question if you're actually in a forest or a slow-motion movie. If you want to you can splurge on a guide to help you spot even more animals, but if you bring your sense of adventure and a keen eye you will spot loads of wildlife on your own, just like we did. Now this one's important, Manuel Antonio is the most popular national park and tickets are limited so you have to book your tickets online at least a few days in advance. The best time to go is right when it opens at 7 a.m., which is what we did and we saw almost no other people until 9. Bonus tip, after you're down with the park, go for lunch at the nearby Emilio Escafe. The views are insane, the food's fantastic and whatever you do, do now skip their passion food pipe. Next up the Nalyaka waterfall. No trip to Costa Rica is complete without a waterfall and if you want to see one of the most dramatic and spectacular ones in the country you should visit this one, located one hour south of Manuel Antonio. The Nalyaka waterfall is 200 feet high, consists of two levels and is located a little deeper inside the rainforest so it's got that raw jungle vibe. Getting there is going to be an adventure in its own right. The waterfall is located two and a half miles from the nearest parking lot. You either do a one hour medium tough, medium sweaty hike through the jungle like we did or you can jump in the back of one of these cool looking 4x4 trucks. No matter how you decide to get there, you're going to love this one as Nalyaka is one of Costa Rica's most epic waterfalls. Now onto something that will shock you, number 3, the Tacos Bridge or as it's famously known. Crocodile Bridge. A leaning over the railings of this bridge, you'll spot groups of American crocodiles in the Tacos River below. These apex predators are up to 20 feet long, weigh up to 2,000 pounds and can easily take down a deer or wild boar. There's about 2,000 of them swimming around in this river, making this the largest population of crocodiles in the world and a fairly bad place to go for a swim. I'm very surprised they're not eating that good over there. If you're driving south along a Pacific coast of Costa Altsar, you'll be driving across this bridge. It makes for a great stop to stretch your legs. Car breakings are very common here though, so if you're green your own wheels, make sure to park over on the side of the bridge that has a souvenir stores and the restaurants because they're sparking attendance there. Continuing our Costa Rica Top 10, we're at number 4 Monte Verde Cloud Forest. If you want to inject your vacation with a bit of magic that can't be found anywhere else in the country, do not skip Monte Verde. Monte Verde is not jungle, it's cloud forest, so it's always cloudy with nearly 100% humidity, which creates this fairy tale-like scenery. You can visit the National Park and walk along the famous suspension bridges high up in the forest canopy or get even higher and soar over the canopy on a zip line. If you're going zip lining, we recommend 100% of Indura. They're two hour tour costs only 56 dollars and includes the longest zip line in Latin America. And if you're brave enough, you can do a 150 foot free fall. Despite what it sounds like, we felt perfectly safe the entire time. Bonus tip, definitely also check out the Collibri Cafe right next to the National Park entrance. The Monte Verde Cloud Forest is one of the 30 different species of hummingbirds and the Collibri Cafe has a sugar water feeders hanging around their patio at these little guys' block two. Having a coffee surrounded by dozens of beautiful hummingbirds is an experience you won't forget, especially when paired with one of their warm cinnamon buns. But now, let's get our head out of the clouds and back into the sunshine. Number 5, Plyah Heradura Costa Rica has plenty of beautiful beaches and you can't really go wrong with any of them, but Plyah Heradura located just north of the town of Jaco is our favorite on the Pacific coast. It's a great beach for swimming, soft sand, it's inside a small way with beautiful blue water and rolling hills in the background. This beach is a favorite among the locals and if you come here during the weekend, you can experience a typical Costa Rican tradition, the big family outing. Local drive for hours to bring their entire family here on the weekends. They're really love to party like a brother, dance and everything, they're having barbecues, they're playing lab music. So not only do we get to enjoy these incredible views, but we also made some new friends as well. Both the humankind and the feathery kind, as there are at least five or six Scarlet McCaws living on this beach. Number six, the San Jose Central Market. Now, if you're coming to Costa Rica, you're probably flying into the capital San Jose. It's mostly just a big city and nothing special, but there is one place we really recommend. If you love food, go sample some of the best traditional Costa Rican food that you'll ever have at the Central Market or Mercado Central. This market is packed with dozens of so-called sodas. No, not the beverages. They're local restaurants that serve typical and affordable dishes. Kind of Costa Rica's version of a diner, you'll find classics here like Gaiopinto, aka the famous rice and beans, loaded meat and panadas, and crazy snacks like a bag of Doritos filled with ceviche. Yes, I actually said that. A bag of corn chips topped with raw fish and sauce. I should be good. It's very surprising. Number seven, La Fortuna and Arinau. La Fortuna is a small town up in the central mountains of Costa Rica and one of the most popular destinations in the country because it's a very action-pack. Not only is La Fortuna the gateway to the 5,300-foot Arinau volcano, which originally put this town on the map, it is also famous for the towering La Fortuna waterfall and its Costa Rica's adventure hub. There's also much more relaxed options like hot springs, coffee tours, and it's a pretty fantastic wildlife. So no matter what you're interested in, you can find it here. Like in most of Costa Rica, the activities around Arinau and La Fortuna are very outdoorsy, but the weather in the mountains can be fickle at times. When we were there, we had bad luck, as it rained non-stop for days. So we didn't get to do too many activities. To avoid that precise situation, we recommend keeping your schedule flexible if you can, monitoring the and not booking your activities too far ahead. Keep in mind that thinking it very crowded and very expensive in Costa Rica, especially once you start doing guided tours, is very different from the rest of Central America. If you want to have lots of adventures and spot cool wildlife, but you're all more of a budget or you don't want to share every slough with 20 other people, you might also want to spend some time outside the super popular areas like the Pacific and Arinau. Many of our best experiences, this is freaking magical. We're in other parts of Costa Rica, and that is what we're going to get to now. Number 8, Rio Nero Hot Springs. When you say Costa Rica, you save volcanoes, and when you save volcanoes, you say hot springs. After a long hike, there is nothing quite like soaking in modern nature's very own hot tub. These are the Rio Nero Hot Springs. A complex with over 10 different pools, either by the active Arincon de la Viaja volcano. Here you can see where the hot volcanic water comes in. That's really hot. It's a three hour drive northeast from Arinau. In terms of Costa Rica prices, this one is pretty affordable, it's 34 dollars per person, you get to use all the facilities for the whole day until 530 I think. You can also get some volcanic volcanic mud is supposed to be very good for your skin because of the minerals that are in it, and it's also a lot of fun. If you want to visit this area, you can also add on the Ringo de la Viaja National Park, which is right next door to the hot springs. There's beautiful hiking and hardly any people. Right now the volcano is erupting pretty much continuously, but when it's not erupting, you can even hike all the way up to the crater rim. Number 9, Puerto Viejo. Woo-hoo! We're officially diving into the Caribbean side of Costa Rica, which has some of our favorite spots in the country. Welcome to Puerto Viejo, the main town on the Caribbean coast where the rhythm of raggae meets the tranquility of the tropics. This laid-back paradise really embodies the Buddha Vida lifestyle. It's a bit more rustic than most of Costa Rica, but that kind of adds to the charm. If you want to try the many flavors of the Caribbean, literally visit the damada restaurant in the city center to sample some Caribbean meals. From freshly caught seafood, the traditional dishes infused with coconut and spices. We also highly recommend a visit to Cabita National Park where the rainforests kisses the Caribbean sea, and you can walk across white sand beaches while monkeys speak at you from the canopy overhead. Cabita has lots of cool wildlife and pure fellow gringos. And that number at number 10, Buinta Uva. This is one of the most underrated spots in Costa Rica, and it will blow your mind. It's located near the sun and most end of the Caribbean coast blows to play out Manzanio. Play out Manzanio embodies everything you love about the Caribbean, swaying palm trees, and that signature Caribbean blue water is the perfect place to come for a snorkel or a swim. And just a short drive from here you'll find Buinta Uva, our favorite secret spot in Costa Rica. This is where the Caribbean sea connects to a system of mangroves that you can explore by kayak. It is one of those rare places where you get some of the best of Costa Rica's nature and wildlife all to yourself. Oh, and did I mention the wildlife? There's no entrance fee to the mangroves and kayak rentals are only about $17 per person. Car breakings are common in this area though, so do try to park in the parking lot of a nearby hotel for a small fee if you can. If you want to find out what the places in this top 10 are really like in person so that you can decide if they're right for your next visit to Costa Rica. Check out some of the other videos of our Costa Rica series. Maybe start with this one?Welcome to Uvita, an adventure lovers dream and a true slice of Costa Rican paradise or Jamie and Skylar and we spent half of our eight days in Costa Rica exploring in and around this beautiful beach and mountain town and we can't wait to show you what makes Uvita Costa Rica so unforgettable. Today we are in Uvita Costa Rica and what better way to start day than at the famous whale tail. We've got a whole lot of this Costa Rican treasure to show you but first Skylar is going to recap how we got here. We flew from Orlando to San Jose where we rented a car and drove through the mountains at night to our first of five different Airbnbs on this trip. Day two consists of a lot of waterfalls which turned out to be my preferred method of showering in Costa Rica. Most of the waterfalls were pretty awesome but not so much this one. We found another waterfall. We also got lost somewhere near volcano and got to cross the river in this day. And we go faster please. After another crazy mountain drive full of fog, great views and one random cow. Look at this cow! I mean how do you get up here? We arrived at our second Airbnbs and hit the hay to rest up for an epic mountain hike. We had beautiful weather for our day three hike but we're a little worried when we still hadn't seen a single other hiker after several miles on the trail but we made it back alive and saw some amazing views so we're calling it a success. Since our hike took much longer than expected we'd be driving in the dark to Uvida which meant we wouldn't be driving through the hill of death because we didn't actually want to die. After a slow but scenic drive along a much safer route we arrived at our Uvida Airbnbs for some much needed sleep and that brings us to the day which we started with a giant ice coffee at Cape Juana's Cafe. We then began the drive to what we thought was the entrance to Marina Bayena National Park but as Google Maps often does in Costa Rica it took us to the middle of nowhere. We eventually located the actual park entrance where we found nearby parking for around four American dollars. We're here at the park and here are just a ton of monkeys in these trees. After hanging out with the monkeys and paying another six dollar her adult fee we could finally enter the park. If you want to see much more of our first three days of Costa Rican adventure be sure to check out this video after the one you're watching but for now it's time to explore the Whale Stale. Of all the spots we visited on our travels the Whale Stale is surely one of the most unique and if you're wondering how it got its name this should answer it for you. But in addition to its coastline forming a distinct shape of a Whale Stale the name is quite fitting for another reason as well. This spot is also known for its amazing whale watching as hundreds of humpback whales migrate through the area each and every year. While we weren't lucky enough to spot a humpback we didn't regret visiting the Whale's tale a bit as the sheer beauty of this tropical paradise is reason to visit alone. As we made our way out to the tail of the whale we noticed that the majority of beachgoers were headed back towards the shore meaning we'd have this magnificent stretch of beach nearly all to ourselves. So we have made it out to the tail to the left we've got one side of the tail to the right we've got the other side of the tail and looking back at land this is the Whale's body now very soon this will all be underwater. And as the tide continues to come in the water from each side will get stronger and eventually they'll be big waves that run into each other and make a vertical splash. I'm not sure if we'll be around long enough to see that this time but we definitely witnessed that the last time we were in Costa Rica. When we were here in Costa Rica last time we missed low tide by several hours in this area where people were walking it was completely covered in water maybe about two three foot deep and we might put just a little bit of footage that we took but this was like seven or eight years ago so we were not really filming for a channel and the footage is not that good but I still think it's really cool to see those waves like crashing against each other because you can't really see that other places. No this is definitely pretty. Yeah. Now when we walked out to the Whale's tail like 15 minutes ago we had to go through like maybe an inch of water and it's gonna get deeper fast. We're getting ready for the walk back to the water we'll let you know how deep it gets. We've got a drive-back still with anything that we don't want wet. It's very good. I'm not a strong. They pull you one way and then they pull you down the way but the ride will be the like one and two foot deep. We're only like three hours maybe past low tide right now and already the whale's entire body is submerged. All you can see is the tail and a little bit of the head over there. Some of these waves have definitely been way steep. As the tides continue to rise at the Whale's tail it was time for us to head back to shore and after taking in some more of these breathtaking beach views we were ready to move on to our next adventure of the day but not before one more quick stop to watch the monkeys. I'm not sure if you can tell but that monkey has a baby on its back. Wow. They're all over in the sand booth. So after starting the day with coffee and the Whale's tail we're gonna go grab some lunch and then show you another waterfall. Skyler searched for a restaurant with a view here in Ovidah. I think he found a good one. So far it's looking promising. Yeah so we didn't have to drive up a pretty steep narrow road and we briefly met a tour bus but we were able to go into a driveway and get past just fine. Look at that view. Yeah that'll work. Let's get that table right there. Alright. Wow I say you found a pretty good spot. That's where we were an hour ago. A tiny bit of a tail is still above water. Yeah if you look you can see kind of the line of the waves to the area that we walked out to for a quick Google for a place with the views. This wasn't even on our radar 15 minutes ago. No. Oh my gosh. So they had a bunch of different fresh juices including fresh passion fruit juice so I got a fresh passion fruit blended with ice and the I don't know. And with this view. For my drink I went with a fresh guana bona juice which was a bit tart a bit sweet and absolutely delicious. On not every restaurant in Costa Rica has the variety of fresh tropical juices that this spot did. It seemed that most restaurants had at least a few which is one of our favorite things about Costa Rica. Another thing that is widely available throughout Costa Rica is fresh ceviche and while Skyler made this his lunch order I went with the garlic fish filet. Both dishes were great and while the prices were a little steep for Costa Rica standards we were more than happy to pay them to get these views. So that lunch thought was totally worth it. Even if you're not looking for a meal if you just want to come up for a drink or like a fresh juice the views are worth the drive up here. After a morning on the Whale's Tale and a lunch with a view it was time to find another waterfall. Thankfully this spot was just a couple of miles outside of Uvida and we knew exactly how to get there. After a short but pretty slow drive on some more steep and very bumpy roads we arrived at the entrance to Caterrata Uvida where you'll find access to the waterfalls for around four dollars per person and also a restaurant. So we're heading down to the waterfall now we can already hear it so it can't be too far away and we were just told by the audience that we should be watching out for snakes and apparently the arvenomess was feeding eyes on the ground. After a couple minutes on the trail and just a few steps we had reached the river where we found markers on the rocks pointing us along the route to the waterfall and while I can't say that getting to the waterfall was easy it was quite a bit of fun and definitely worth the effort. When we visited years ago these cables were not here at all and we were just kind of exploring around on the boulders. It is kind of nice to have these. I'm going to start recording that like an actually good approach. Once across the river we passed by a couple of smaller waterfalls and went back across the river again before reaching the falls that we had come to see. While I was beyond content is relaxing and taking in the views of the falls after spotting some guys jumping off the falls Skyler had to join them but since there was a ladder and Skyler promised to only go to the lowest jumping spot I wasn't too worried. Since the first waterfall jump resulted in no injuries Skyler decided to jump from a little bit higher which made me a lot more nervous. Well thanks to some guys from Vancouver Canada Skyler was able to find the right spot to jump from. I was pretty nervous about it. One of them was super nice and hung back with me to make sure that he got his footing right. But it sounds like they do some slip jumping so they're going to work very excited. On the way back to the parking lot we came across this green and black poison dart frog. As their name would suggest these unique looking frogs are indeed poisonous and while safe to observe from a distance should definitely not be touched. Further down the trail we came across a great pool for swimming and a fun jumping spot for those who aren't quite ready to take on the big falls. So admission to the waterfall also comes with admission to this butterfly garden. We've seen a ton of butterflies just out on our hikes so can't imagine how many we'll see in here. Unfortunately we didn't find a whole lot of butterflies in this garden but found it to still be worth checking out just to see the beautiful tropical flowers. So we've got a one and a half kilometer ride of this mountain to get to our sunset spot. I think we're going to get there maybe 10 minutes before and we can't see it a little off to the left. So it hasn't said yet but it might go down pretty quickly. I got it on rock and dirt mode. It is nice to have a four wheel drive when going up to places like this. Every vehicle we've met has to have fun for a four wheel drive. Yeah. They have no idea how to get into this road because I have a feeling that I'm probably going to be the one driving down it. Oh. We can see it. I think we're going to have about 10 minutes before the sun actually sets. If you're enjoying this video and want to see more of our Costa Rica content be sure to subscribe to our channel and turn on the notifications. But for now it's time to check out Jolly Roger. While we did arrive at this mountain top bar and grill just in time for sunset it had become quite overcast and there wasn't too much of one to see. But nevertheless the views were still amazing and this cocktail known as the Bohemian was one of Skyler's favorite drinks of the entire trip. In addition to some fantastic cocktails Jolly Roger is also known for having great burgers and wings but we had another spot in line for dinner. And that was the Whale-Tale brewery which is not only a video's only brewery but also has some great food and an even better atmosphere. After much consideration Skyler went with the wild Micos Scottishale which was his favorite beer of all the beers he's tried in Costa Rica. One of my favorite things about this brewery was that they had a smoothie menu from which I chose the Loparoa which included strawberry, peppermint and gender and tasted amazing in this beautifully landscape patio area. But perhaps the coolest feature of this brewery is that this beautiful path right off the patio leads to the Whale-Tale Hotel. You can stay at the Whale-Tale Hotel in the block of Costa's Path of the brewery. After a few minutes of exploring around the property our food order was ready which consisted of this order of shredded chicken nachos. And while it was far from the largest order of nachos we've ever seen they tasted amazing especially with the little barbecue sauce on the side. We both enjoyed this brewery so much that we agreed we'd look into staying at the Whale-Tale Hotel for our next trip to Evita. But after finishing our food and drinks and hanging out with the brewery cat it was time to head back to our Airbnb to rest up for a day of beaches, caves and waterfalls on our 5th day in Costa Rica. Now if you haven't already seen our first three days of adventuring Costa Rica or you want to see the rest of this series you can do that by clicking here right now. Thanks for watching!With over 400 waterfalls packed into one tiny country, Costa Rica is a waterfall taser's dream and in this video we're taking you to one of the country's best waterfall destinations. We're Jamie and Skyler and we recently spent eight days road tripping through Costa Rica. Our first four days included a pretty epic hike. Look at these views that we got. And some amazing waterfalls. And since we just can't get enough of either, our fifth day in Costa Rica has more of both. We'll be hiking two miles each way to visit two more stunning falls. But before we get to that, we're gonna start this day at one of Costa Rica's most unique and beautiful beaches. Our day five beach destination takes us around seven miles south of the Vida to Ojochal. It's here on the Pacific Shoreline that you'll find Ply of Antanas and its famous beachfront caves. There's the water at low tide. The caves are over to the left which we'll get to and you can see the beach which is in line to be the previous palm trees. During high tide, this is all completely underwater and you can't even access the caves. Thankfully, we could learn how important it is to track the tides on our last trip to Costa Rica. So this time, we had arrived shortly after a morning low tide to be sure that we could walk into the caves. Of the two main caves at Ply of Antanas, the one further to the north is the largest and the one Skyler decided to explore first. Skyler is walking way into the cave. Alright, he's reached the water. Oh yeah, that's a snap. I don't know if you can see that little dot in the middle of the light, but I think Skyler is coming back out finally. Okay, so it's definitely switched and the tide is coming in. It didn't get near this holy crap. This is crazy how fast the tide comes in. The cave that lies further to the south is quite a bit smaller than the one to the north and is definitely not for those who are claustrophobic and although Skyler's not a huge fan of tight spaces, he decided to explore the cave anyway. While Skyler's risk appetite is much more than mine, he knew that his time in this cave was limited. As the waters in this cave can rise extremely fast, creating a very dangerous situation, even for strong swimmers. Eventually, Skyler decided the water was getting a little too high for his comfort and decided to join me out on the beach. I'm really glad we decided to come at low tide this time and at only $4 a million America, and I'd say this is a must visit. Back out on the beach, we were amazed to find we still had it nearly all to ourselves on this late Wednesday morning. And while we would have loved to stick around to enjoy it for a while, we had other places to be. The first of which was a Roma cafe, where we had already visited earlier for breakfast that morning and were extremely impressed. Now normally, we don't visit the same spot twice in one trip, but our coffees and passion fruit pastry at a Roma were so delicious, we just had to make a stopback for a lunch order to go. After 5 and honest, we decided to go back to the place where we had coffee at this morning because we enjoyed it so much and we did see that they had a pretty good lunch menu, but we are booking it now to Nyaka. So we couldn't stay, we got our food to go, we'll show you what it looks like. So we ended up getting two of these sandwiches and honestly for lunch, we probably could have gotten by with one. I don't think we had any idea how big they were. We ate all the fries, and now you can see the sandwich a little bit better. For what, six or seven bucks American? That's a great deal. By the time we grabbed our sandwiches and got back on the road, it was already around noon, and since we'd have a 40 minute hike both to and from the waterfall, and would have to be back to our vehicle by four, we knew we'd have limited time to enjoy the waterfalls, so we were in a hurry. I think really a couple minutes from the entrance to Nyaka Waterfalls, now we are going to the original, which is Don Lulos, that is less expensive if you're willing to hike both ways. After around a 15 minute drive northeast from Dominic Al, we reached the office, Rodan Lulos, where we purchased our tickets for $10 per person before driving another mile or so to the parking lot. To even though this road is nice and paved, it is super narrow. We would not want to meet anybody coming up at this time, but we're pretty sure by the time we're ready to come back up on this road, nobody should be driving down. I think they stopped letting people in the park after some point in the afternoon. I think parking for the day is $4 and the parking lot closes at four. Down here in the parking lot they do have restrooms and changing areas which is really nice. So we are just putting on sunscreen and staying in front of the AC as long as possible, because as soon as you step out of the car, you're like sweating immediately. It's going to be a very hot hike today, but think it'll be worth it to see the falls. Ready for our adventure, we begin the two mile hike to the waterfall, which began by crossing over the river and into the forest. So when you go to the original entrance, you can pay $10 USD per person plus $4 to park, or you can pay $30 per person, and you can take the trucks that drive up and down. And I think it might be just like a 10 minute hike to the falls, or you can pay I think $80 per person and ride horses. If you do like the $30 per person, I think that it's a limit of like two hours at the falls, which you know I think for most people that would be enough. So we're about a half mile into the hike to the falls, and this is our view at the moment. Very scenic. So there are a lot of really nice views on the side of this trail, but do keep in mind that there are horses on this trail as well. So make sure you don't spend too much time looking at the views because you'll probably step in horse boots. It does look like we're going to have nice signs along the way to let us know how far until the waterfall. And today we're hiking only four miles, which is much better than the six miles we've had two days ago. Now if you haven't already seen our hike up Pico Blanco, our morning at the whale's tail are crazy drive through the mountains, or our visits to several other coastal recon waterfalls. Be sure to check out the first two episodes in this series after this one. And if you want to be sure to not miss our final coastal recon episode, go ahead and subscribe to our channel and turn the notifications on. So we're here on a Wednesday. I think we started hiking around noon or maybe just a little bit after. And there are quite a few people hiking on the trail. We've reached our first choose your adventure portion of the trail. You take the bridge, or do you take the rocks? You taking the bridge? Yeah. All right, I'm taking the rocks. But this little slippery over there. Yeah, they were a little slippery. Also the rock route was longer. So far the hike has been very, very green. Again, we're here at the very end of rainy season. So this might be the greenest that it gets. One kilometer down, two to go. We're both getting pretty sweaty already. I don't know if it's so much different, like the time of year that you visit, because this trail mostly has been shaded for us. But when we had done this trail years ago, it would have been in May. And I remember the trail being mostly sunny. And it was pretty miserably hot. So it is significantly better this time around. So up ahead we see a bunch of horses. We're thinking it's probably the halfway point where you can stop and get some food and drinks. We're doing pretty good. I think we're just going to keep moving. Try to get to the falls as early as possible. So we can enjoy it for a few hours and still be to our Airbnb before sunset. As you can see, the option to take horses to the falls is pretty popular. So guys, this is probably the longest stretch of sun up ahead. So the bad thing about this super hot and humid weather is that it really saps the energy out of you. And it does make a hike that normally probably wouldn't be that bad. Pretty difficult, but the good thing about it is that cold waterfall is going to feel great once we get there. Oh, we got another bridge coming up. Skylar looks like you can walk through the water if you want to again. But I think I'm going to go over this bridge. You don't have to. You can join me on the bridge. Once again, Jamie chose the bridge. And I'm taking the rocks. Looks like pretty beautiful. I did not have taken the rock. If you don't want to get your feet wet, take the bridge. Don't take the rocks. Because even though they're pretty flat, they are covered in moss and you just slide right off them, getting close. As you can see, there's a few more people on the trail now. Those are the people that took the truck to get to the point where it's only a 10 minute hike to the waterfall. So that means we should have less than 10 minutes to go at this point. And after just a few more minutes on the trail, we had arrived at the boardwalk which leads to the falls where we found restrooms and changing rooms in a map with directions to the waterfalls. So the lower falls is where you can swim and cool off. So we're going to hit the upper falls first while we're hot and sweaty and then we'll go cool off into lower falls after that. I cannot believe how different this experience is. I know we were here several years ago, but this has changed so much. This full path was not here at all. After over two miles of hiking in the coast to wreak and heat, we had finally reached the upper waterfall and it was every bit as impressive as we had remembered. The falls dropped more than 170 feet before cascading an additional 85 feet down to the swimming area below. And while there may not be any spots for swimming at the upper falls, the mist from the falls is still a great way to cool down. Now if you aren't comfortable getting down close to the falls like Skylar, you can still experience the upper falls from this platform, which is far enough a way to keep you dry, but still close enough to have an amazing view. So it does look like if you go to the new entrance point, you get to explore the other side of the river and the waterfalls. So you will get a whole other view over there. It would be cool to go to both places. We can look up for waterfalls or into the lower falls. On our hike to the lower waterfall, we ran across these guys and while we're not quite sure what they are, they did seem to be friendly. We did have to climb down quite a few stairs to get to the lower waterfall, but the bay and the railing made reaching it pretty easy. At around 85 feet high, the lower falls is only about half as tall as the upper falls, but it's still quite impressive. And while the upper falls may not be good for swimming, the lower falls definitely is. And after four days of watching Skylar swim and chilly coast of reacon waters, I finally decided to take a swim myself. Oh, it's finally in. Oh my god, look at that view. It's a little bit to get used to this. I didn't feel really going to go. In addition to being an awesome spot for swimming, the lower falls is also a great spot to snap some photos. And since we had these falls almost entirely to ourselves, we took advantage of the opportunity. Now around three in the afternoon, it was about time to get going, but first, Skylar had to make an attempt at jumping off the waterfall. Unfortunately, he couldn't find the spot to climb up the falls, so we'd have to wait another day to get in his next jump. So we are on our way back from the falls. It is clouded over quite a bit, so it's a lot nicer walking back. But I think we're a little bit disappointed. Well, at least no Skylar is. We were too late for the guides to be on the falls. They kind of assist with people getting up on the waterfalls to jump off. They usually have a rope. And also, they just kind of show you where to go up. There was still a guide there that would kind of tell us how to get out to the area to jump off. But we had a bit of a language barrier. And I think by the time... There was a lot of pointing and going like this. Yeah, he was trying to help us out for sure. But by the time I think you'd figured out what he was actually trying to communicate to us. I still don't know exactly what he was saying. I just went out to the waterfall. Yeah. It takes so much energy just to get to the fall because of the current. Because normally, last time we were there that I was able to jump, they had a rope connected to an inner tube that they pulled out to the waterfall. And because they're such a current. So just getting out there was a challenge. I was pretty out of breath. By the time I made it to the waterfall. And then looking up and trying to find the spot where you climb up with all that water hitting you in the face. You're pretty much can't see anything. So I tried. But and I think we were like the last two of three people out of the waterfall so they were getting ready to shut down for the day. Otherwise, I have a feeling you probably would have rested a little bit. I would have kept trying. Yeah. Kind of ran out of time. Yep. So if you want to jump off of the waterfalls here, make sure to visit between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. They said that's whenever they usually have the ropes available to help. This hike back has been so much more enjoyable just because it feels so much cooler. So we have about a half mile to go to the parking lot and then we'll be on our way to our fourth Airbnb district. Yeah, we've already stayed in some pretty cool ones, but I think this one's probably gonna be our favorite. Well, our dry streak is over. We're finally getting caught in the rain. Fairly. It's only sprinkling so far. Yeah. It's probably gonna get heavier, but maybe we'll look out. We made it back to the green suspension bridge and right across that is the parking lot. We got like eight minutes to spare. We've had it a little close, but not too bad. Yeah. Maybe six minutes to spare. With the sun setting right around 5 p.m., we'd only have about an hour to get to our mountain Airbnb before dark. Thankfully, it was only a few miles away, but we knew the roads there would probably be bad. Plus, we still had to get groceries. Fortunately, this superplatinnyo wasn't far out of the way and had everything we'd need for our two nights in the mountains. As we expected, the rest of the drive to the Airbnb was pretty, but also a bit sketchy, and we were sure glad to be doing it in the daylight. Now, because the property was a little bit off the grid, our directions were primarily based off of landmarks, which is why we were especially happy to come across this waterfall. You found the waterfall, so we're going the right way. So this Airbnb host has some great instructions for how to get out here. We just went through a bamboo grove and a small waterfall was on our left. Okay, let's see what we're supposed to do next. The road turns right there. Hang on. Was there a way to turn it off? Thankfully, the mist turn didn't slow us down too much. So we did make it back to our Airbnb after going to the store, and there is still a little bit of light, but it is gorgeous here. Gosh, this place is up in the mountains, and it is very peaceful. While our fifth day in Costa Rica wasn't short on hiking or waterfalls, our sixth day in Costa Rica had even more of both. And if you want to see that video, or either of the first two episodes in this series, go ahead and click here right now. Thanks for watching!Welcome back to wonderfully lost a travel community for parents by parents. Craving a break? Costa Rica and its natural marvels are way too. Wondering where to begin? We've lined up the top resort to you can't afford to miss before your twilight years. Are you ready? It's embark on the Costa Rican adventure. Number 7. Rancho Pacifico Starting with one of Costa Ricas' best resorts. Make memories with an award-winning resort with everything to offer. It's a beautiful, all-inclusive resort for adults, encompassed by a lush green forest in the Pacific Ocean. It's nestled on private property and offers visitors an enchanting view so they can be friend nature. This resort boasts spacious rooms, sweets and villas designed explicitly for couples. The best way to experience this spot is to take a refreshing dip in its infinity pool. You can enjoy the mesmerising beauty of the Pacific Ocean while you're unwinding. Another must-have at Rancho Pacifico is the food. You've got to nourish yourself to explore what the place has to offer fully. The dishes they serve are absolutely draw worthy, made with local ingredients to keep the authentic Costa Rican flavors alive. What's more, the resort features a fantastic spa and wellness spot. This is the place where you can find soothing treatments that foster relaxation and red jubination, helping you discover that much-needed inner peace. While a resort offers scenic views and fun indoor activities, it also offers outdoor adventurous fun. You can enjoy hiking in the lush green forest, swing the zip line and discover the nearby waterfalls. Here's an idea. You can book this exotic resort for your dream destination wedding and make unforgettable picture-resque memories. You won't be able to find a place like this anywhere else in Costa Rica. That's for sure. Number 6. The Western Reserva Consyal An all-inclusive golf resort and spa. Western Reserva Consyal should be the next item on your bucket list if you're a nature lover. It's an all-inclusive resort and spa within chanting beaches nearby. This resort is located amidst a lush tropical forest and offers a relaxing backdrop. The resort has rooms with comfortable beds and an environment for a peaceful stay. Plus you have the privilege of relishing stunning sunset views all while enjoying a warm cup of tea on the terrace. This resort offers access to pristine beaches with crystal clear water, perfect for the gram. At the Western Reserva Consyal, you'll find a spa and golf club designed by Robert Trent Jones, whether you seek to freshen up with spa treatments or indulge in your passion for golf. This is the place to be. The resort's stand-up feature is its friendly and welcoming staff. In addition, the best part is that this resort is for both kids and adults, making it ideal for family vacations. Children can enjoy game time at the kids club, while adults can walk in the resort's lush gardens and swim in the crystal clear waters. On top of that, they've got water sports ready for you to dive into. You can explore the coastal scene by snorkeling, kayaking or paddle boarding with your family. How fantastic is that! The Western Reserva Consyal is heaven for everyone looking forward to enjoying a bundle of fun, peace and luxury all under one roof. 5. W. Costa Rica Resort Looking for a getaway to a tropical paradise? Well, look no further than W. Costa Rica Resort. Nestled in the heart of Costa Rica, this resort guarantees a peaceful stay and an array of activities to dive into. It's the perfect land of relaxation and fun. This hotel stands out with its private balconies, bars and the luxurious treatments that it offers. You can hit the spa, infinity pool or golf course when in the resort. On a sunny day, you can splash in the pool and for a soothing massage, head to the spa. Also, the resort has a gym for fitness enthusiasts. And why not head to the beach to snap up those radiant sunset hues with your phone's camera? Picture this, your sipping tea is the sun dips behind the mountains. If imagining it brings a smile, why not go ahead and experience it for real? Nothing stopping you. But beyond that, you have the chance to immerse yourself in the vibrant folk performances and music of Costa Rica a true cultural treat. There's no shortage of activities to get involved in either, whether it's kayaking, snorkeling or everything in between. The opportunities are endless. Dive in and make the most of it. With all these fantastic facilities, a nature lover would never miss visiting this resort. 4. Planet Hollywood Costa Rica and Autograph Collection Imagine finding a peaceful havens surrounded by the breathtaking beauty of nature far away from the hustle and bustle of your daily life. Planet Hollywood offers the perfect escape to create a serene home away from home. This musical theme resort has everything to offer for all age groups. Here, you'll feel like a celebrity surrounded by movie themed decor. From a private balcony, enjoy the outdoor view while resting peacefully in bed. Hit the pool on a sunny day to refresh yourself and head to the gym for a workout. Reach your taste buds at any of the resort's seven restaurants. These eateries offer a world of flavours catering to all sorts of cravings. So no matter where you're from, you'll find something that tastes just like home. Since this isn't all inclusive resort, you'll find various entertainment activities, such as Red Carpet Movie Night and star-studded performances here. And let's not forget the trendy shops dotted around the place, perfect for satisfying that shopping itch. Itchers, zip lining and ATV tours await in the enchanting Papagaya Golf. This resort has luxurious facilities and activities. You name it and it's there. Everyone dreams of becoming a star, so if you want to be treated like one for some days, look no further than Planet Hollywood Costa Rica and autograph collection. 3. Barcelona Tambor Looking forward to a tranquil escape? If so, book your ticket to Costa Rica and head to Barcelona Tambor. This spectacular beachfront resort is located on Tambor Beach in the Nacoya Peninsula of Costa Rica. Surrounded by lush green and a picturesque landscape, the resort offers a perfect combo of natural beauty and modern luxury, thus making it an ideal location for a relaxing getaway. This resort features a total of 402 comfy rooms and suites. You've got options to choose from. Some rooms come with air conditioning and a minibar, while others boast private balconies or terraces. No matter what you choose, you'll guaranteed stunning views, bit of the sparkling ocean or lush gardens. Barcelona Tambor rolls out the red carpet for food, serving yummy delights catering to all taste buds. The restaurants offered diverse cuisines, ensuring you won't run out of culinary adventures. The resort has bars where you can sip on fancy cocktails and cool beverages. You'll find many engaging activities at this resort, including snorkeling, kayaking, paddleboarding and wind surfing. Another best spot is the swimming area, catering to adults and children, ensuring maximum privacy and safety. Sports enthusiasts can play on the tennis court or volleyball at the beach. For younger guests, there's a separate club with supervised activities, ensuring the parents can enjoy their vacation, worry free. Considering the resort's location, nearby beaches and other natural wonders are accessible. This resort is an enticing blend of lush surroundings, enchanting beaches and luxurious comfort. 2. Villas Sol Hotel and Beach Resort If you want to reconnect with nature, villas Sol Hotel and beach resort is your place. It's a beachfront resort, surrounded by a charming landscape. It's located in Central America and is nestled in Guarnacast, offering visitors a stunning view of lush landscapes. The resort offers a blend of relaxation, luxury and fun, making it an ideal place to save for families, couples and solo travelers. The accommodation is diverse, ranging from spacious rooms to luxury suites, all made to cater to your budget. One of the best features of this resort is its private beach. You can sunbathe and indulge in other beach activities at the shore. The cherry on top is the clear blue water of the Pacific Ocean, making it a perfect spot for water sports. Villas Sol has many amenities for relaxation seekers, including a spa where you can relax. The resort offers activities like zip lining and walking to the nearest parks to entertain you. For food lovers, this resort has restaurants where the smell of seafood can make you drool. You can savor the meal while enjoying the beautiful view of nature. Overall the environment of this resort is calm and soothing. You'll love staying here. It'll make an exceptional destination for your vacation in a tropical paradise in Costa Rica. Number 1. Margaritaville Beach Resort Player Flamingo Looking for a peaceful and romantic getaway this summer? Not no further than Margaritaville Beach Resort Player Flamingo. Inspired by Jimmy Buffett's popular song Margaritaville, this place can be an ideal vacation spot for you. It features rooms with luxurious amenities and a beach view at the front. You can delve into various activities like swimming and go sparring to achieve fresh and young skin. Additionally, you can indulge in water sports in the crystal clear water of the Pacific Ocean. More so? The resort has a gym for fitness freaks. Food lovers can savor the delights of fresh seafood and local or international food and refreshments at the bar. Munching on the delicious food will give your palettes an unforgettable experience. And how can you forget about spending a romantic evening with your loved one at the beach? Living at this resort can turn out to be pure bliss. You get to enjoy a blend of entertainment and luxury under one roof, such a therapeutic experience it is. Thanks for watching. Don't forget to like and subscribe.Travel with me to Costa Rica for the first time ever. We began our journey landing in San Jose. We then hopped on a shuttle and made our way to La Jordona. It is our first day of Costa Rica. The drive is a little crazy, but roads are super bumpy and it's going to take us two hours to get there. You guys are at the Airbnb. We made it to the hotel. Two hours later, we're in La Jordona. It was a long way. We spent the entire morning driving. It is now 12 p.m. I'm so excited. There's so much we want to do, but the first thing is going out to eat because I'm starving. It is so hot. But I love it. The weather feels so good and we're going to change outfits. This is the before. Here's the outfit of today. I have a little bikini under. It's hot. This is our first time going out. We came to this little restaurant called Padquilla, Los Angeles. There's little chickens and dogs running around. One of the most popular spots in La Jordona is the La Jordona waterfall, which was the first spot that we decided to visit. I was having a moment of gratefulness. I decided to whip out my journal, which I was carrying with me everywhere throughout this trip. I literally was writing down how I thrive when I'm in nature. I belong in a forest, eating berries, being surrounded by cute animals. We are back at the hotel. Since we started our day at pretty late today, we're pretty tired now. I could honestly go to sleep, but I'm determined to soak out and do more stuff. I kind of got ready again. Put on a new outfit. I don't know if I mentioned this already, but we are going to be here for a whole week. I've been putting together a little bucket list. My Costa Rica bucket list. Activities that I hope to do while I'm here. It's good. We're walking around trying to look for a little grocery store. We're walking out on the streets by ourselves. I'm currently in a natural fox place. This is so dirty. It actually feels so feeling in nature. You guys have no idea how grateful I am to be here. I'm currently sitting on the side of the road. I fell and scraped myself. Next on our agenda, we're going to be heading to the Arrino volcano. It's like a little hike, but we're actually going to be taking horses on the way up. I'm so excited because riding horses was on our bucket list. I destroyed my bag and my hat. So I'm going to see the Arrino. It's already different from the Arrino, but it's very similar. Okay. We're going to go back to the bus. Once we made it to the top of the mountain with our horsey, which was such a vibe. We got off and hiked the rest of the way up to go to the school spot where we got a good view of the Arrino volcano. We made it to the volcano. Okay, no. We're going to the volcanic rocks. Before the day end, one last thing we wanted to do in my fortuna is go to the rope swing where you basically jump off of the rope into the water. And I feel like that's an iconic thing that you have to do here. And it's free. So hopefully we get to go do that before I get to start. I got so dark for finally leaving. We did some late night swimming at this river where you can jump off of a rope. And I jumped off quite a few times. It was so fun. Everyone told us that the water would be cold. But because of the adrenaline, once I jumped in, you couldn't even feel it. It literally felt warm. And it felt so good. So that night, we ended up doing a little road trip to Huckle, which was about a four-hour drive. To the left we have the cute little kitchen. We have all of our stuff here, but this is the dining table in the center. There's some bunk beds. I cannot. And then over here we have the bathroom. We just got some assayables and we're going to head to the beach. We're starting our morning in Huckle Beach. I definitely want to explore all the beaches around the area. I have all of my beach assembly laid out. I brought my book with me. And today's just going to be more of a relaxation day, which is much needed. Because after spending the last two days being an adventure girly, doing a bunch of crazy stuff, which just left me feeling so dead. Like, my knee is scratched up. I feel sore. My ankles are bruised. But yeah, let's see how today goes. What's up, guys? I'm going to the beach. I'm going to the beach. Thank you. Okay, we just went out the whole morning at the beach and we went about to the hotel. We're ending today at this restaurant called Ida de Mosa. We're watching the sunset while eating. Sit. Okay, Pa. Hello. I'm going to the sunset. This morning after breakfast, we went from Haco to Mano Antonio, which is only an hour drive. We're in our new Airbnb. We're only going to be here for a day. We've just been all over the place. I want to make the most of this trip. So we've just been hopping around from town to town. I'm starting to wish that I would have planned better for this trip. I was trying to find stuff to do last minute. We realized that there's this really cool national park. We can go to in this area, but we're not going to be able to go. Instead, we were able to find a tour that's actually going to take us on a little boat. To go through a river where we can see monkeys and sloths and a bunch of cute animals, which I'm excited for. We already made a huge mess. This is the view. How cramped. This is a kelp print cat. He loves me. Yes, I'm yellow back at cats. He intruded. Okay. It's pretty cool. It's like a garden inside. It's like a precarious garden. It's so hard to find a good one. After the boat tour, we walked around this little farm. I said hi to the animals. They then took us to Gogget dinner as a part of our tour to this restaurant and the center of Manuela Antonio. We just finished a six hour ride from Manuela Antonio to Puerto Viejo. We're officially here. This is going to be our last location. We're going to be here for the last couple days that we're going to be here in Costa Rica. It's one of the locations I was most excited for. And this time we're staying at a house. Look at how pretty she is. We're surrounded by the sounds of nature. So they have this outdoor area. They have the cutest canopy. There's literally butterflies flying around. This outdoor kitchen. Then here we have the main kitchen. The bed. I cannot get over. How cute this bathroom is. Like look at this bathtub. We're getting ready to go biking to the beach. We were told that in Puerto Viejo that's how a lot of people get around since everything is really close to each other. And I'm pretty excited. I'm obsessed with the bracelet I bought here. This moon stone. It promotes creativity and helps calm the mind. It's as intuition dreams plus energy. I've realized that there is no point in wearing makeup. There's a little lip balm from Fenty Beauty. This is the outfit of the day. Also this dress does not want to zip. The zipper is fully stuck. But the dress is so cute. That's why I want to wear it. Come over here. We just finished biking to Puerto Viejo. We got into my bathing suit. The water is so clear here. Sand is super light and it is such a vibe. I've been dripping in sweat and I can't wait to get in the water. I'm going to try to get underwater footage. I'm going to try to get underwater footage. I'm going to try to get underwater footage. Hello. We're back in the Airbnb. Check out my tan. Also my face is red. But it looks kind of cute. We spent the morning at the beach, picked up some fruits, missed the light-laws in the other room. I'm tempted to take a nap as well. But I feel like that is not the move. I want to be able to take in every second that I'm here. I've been wanting to try all of the fruit out here. For something we've noticed about all of the food is that everything is so much less sugary out here. The usual things I would drink in the US, which is so does. Any type of juices, they all taste so different. It's like their lacking sugar. But it's a good thing. I don't know if I'm crazy, but I feel like even the fruits are a lot juicier. I just finished taking a shower right now. I changed to an outfit. Something I had realized about myself on this trip is that I am such an adventurer currently. I feel like when most people go on trips, they just want to relax. And then I'm over here being the complete opposite. And I just want to be out adventuring. I want to go explore everything. I want to do every activity possible. And I don't know if I mentioned this already, but literally this whole trip was so spontaneous. I did not plan anything before coming here. Which is kind of bad. I don't recommend that. That definitely just made things more stressful. Anyways. Mmm, it's so juicy and sweet. So yummy. I'm at the pineapple juice. Oh my god. We drove to a nearby waterfall. Literally just had to go down some steps. And it's called the Brebury waterfall. We got pizza. We were going to try to watch the sunset and eat pizza, but we kind of missed it. We're still going to go though, because it's right there. Oh. Today's our last day in Costa Rica. And today's going to be a no-phone day. Which is a good thing and a bad thing. Bad thing because I got water in my phone yesterday. Which I'm so terrified because that my phone isn't working. Like it ended up dying. And now it just won't charge. Which is such an issue. I'm terrified because literally all of my pictures are on there. And I've been vlogging a lot on my phone. So if this video ends up going up, then everything's okay. But I'm sure I'll be fine. I'm just going to have to let my phone dry today. Technically yesterday was a no-phone day too. Since my phone stopped working yesterday. We're going to have time to go catch the sunrise. This probably will be our last beach moment. Since it is supposed to rain today. There's even a chance of thunderstorm. But I'm kind of excited for that. Since I haven't gotten to experience the rain here yet. Also, we were terrified last night. Because a whole bunch of insects started appearing. There's literally one right there, daring at me. There was lizards crawling around, centipedes, and we were terrified that they were going to crawl on us at night. I officially got my first bug bite. It's just surprising that I didn't get sooner. I feel like that's totally expected though in Costa Rica. That you're probably going to encounter creepy big insects in your home. This is the hairstyle we're going with today. I'm starting to give up on my hair. This is as good as it's going to get. Look at that beautiful forest. Oh, a flyer cook this? Yeah. Okay. We're at the beach now and we brought some snacks. This is so good. It started raining. It's raining hard. We're coug. We're coug. No way. It's raining. This is our first official rain experience. I love how I'm just always constantly pouring sweat. Even when it's raining outside, we're going to be heading to the heart of Puerto Villal. And get some breakfast. Today we're actually doing a little chocolate tour, which I'll explain more later. But that should be interesting because those are super popular here. I feel like I would have been sad if we didn't do one at some point. Also, there's not a lot of ubers in Puerto Villal. So we're going to have to go ask somebody to see how to get a taxi, how transportation works around here. I know there's also buses and stuff, but I have no idea how those work. So we're going to go figure it out. The roads are so crazy here. It'll literally go front and meant to just pure rocks and dirt. It's just one of the reasons that I decided to not rent a car because I would not trust myself. Look at that. I'm going to help get a taxi or go find one. Where are you going to find one? Where are you going to find the bus? This is cute. It always works. We're going to go to the restaurant, but we have a number. We noticed this flea market that of course we had to go and explore. I thought it was cute how so many people were there selling their own clothes from home. We ended up doing some shopping and we're going to be heading to the chocolate tour. I told you about earlier. Since Costa Rica is mostly known for their chocolate and coffee, I really wanted to go on one of their chocolate tours. In this tour, I got to learn about how to grow chocolate from start to finish. The lady showed us her cacao trees, how she grows them. Once we made the chocolate, we got to taste it. She even made us some hot chocolate, which was not my favorite, but the chocolate was okay. This was overall a fun learning experience. I think it's always interesting to learn more about the agriculture and economies of the country that you're visiting. The last thing we did this night was go get dinner. I had so much fun in Costa Rica. Thank you guys for supporting my channel because if it wasn't for you, these two travel vlogs would not exist. I love you guys so much and see you next week.Hello, today's video. If you're coming to Costa Rica, please don't do the following things. So please, I thought I'd do this video, so hopefully you watched this before you come down. And these series of don'ts will either save you money, save your time, help you out somewhere else. So here we go, let's get into it. You should definitely rent a car, get out, travel around the country, see some nice things. So please don't rent those tiny normal, silent cars, get a small SUV. And not necessarily because you're going to be going off-road, but the loads of pop holes in this country and when you're parking, you're always parking on a virgin going up. So really you need ground clearance and you need good size tires. There's little tires on the cheapest rental cars that blow out on the slightest thing, slightest little pop hole. And you do not want to be on the side of the road trying to change a tire. So that would be my number one don't. These don't pay for everything in dollars. The currency of the country is the Coln. The name comes from Christopher Coln, which is another name for Christopher Columbus. So everything is based in the Coln, even though they've presented to you in dollars. The big ticket items like your hotel, renting your car will be in dollars. Pretty much everything else, but you can try to play in Coln as because if you pay in dollars, the exchange rate will be in their favour. And it might be massively in their favour. I mean, the exchange rate when I'm doing this video is about 6, 10, 6, 15. Some of the modes that don't get the exchange rate are 500. So you're losing 20% by paying in dollars. So I'd always have Coln as now. Please don't change your money in the airport. It's a complete and utter ripoff. Pretty much. When if you go into any bank, they've all got very similar rates, the normal banks. And that's the best place to change US dollar notes into Coln as. The other alternative is to draw money out on your credit card. I would always select Coln as. So then it comes up on your credit card in Coln as and then whatever your credit card company at home doesn't exchange rate that's generally the point. Don't try to see too much in one trip. When you're planning a trip, you've got a map of Costa Rica and it looks like from one place to the next it's about an inch. It seems that every trip takes four hours here. The roads are not the best. They're sort of windy little country roads and pop holy and then you want to stop off and see things on the way. So travel between one destination and the next always takes longer than you're planning. So if your trip is bum bum bum bum bum you're not really stopping to smell the roads and enjoy the place. I would say spend at least two nights in every destination and if it's one you think you're going to love spending spend three nights and then also you're not under stress to be getting to your destination because Costa Rica roads you just got to take your time and not rush and not speed because around the next bend they're going to be cows on the road or a big old pop hole we need to swerve around. There are so many amazing things to see in this country but maybe just in your first trip down here plan to see a few things and then think why are you going to be coming back in the year because everybody falls in love with it and everybody comes back. Don't be fooled when you're going to restaurants with their menu and their bills. Generally whatever you see on the menu they're going to add 30% sales tax and a 10% tip and that 10% tip by law goes to the service it's not for the restaurant. So whatever you, whatever price you see on the menu you know that there's going to be a 23% added to that when you get the check. If you see it itemized which it has to be by law they'll say 30% sales tax fair enough and then they won't say they'll say tax service tax or something like they'll try to get the word tax into it so you think it's just a tax rather than the government enforce 10% obligatory tip that goes to the staff. So people tend to be there to the amount of the menu comes to them with an extra 20, 23% added on and then they'll give another 20% tip so then your budget goes goes over the top. Leave whatever tip you feel comfortable with. A normal Costa Rica going to a restaurant and then we'll probably leave a few coins or a dollar or two extra and that's what the servers are normally expecting. Don't come without WhatsApp download it onto your phone. Everybody uses WhatsApp as their primary means of communication. But no Costa Rica is ever going to be sending you a text or calling your North American number. If you don't know WhatsApp is what the rest of the world uses apart from North America to communicate and it's a free app. So for example if you're waiting on the side of the road for your driver and he's late which they usually are. If you have his WhatsApp number say hey wait where are you and he says oh I'm 20 minutes away then you can go get a cup of coffee and he knows on his way and you're absolutely fine. If you're relying on emails or whatever he will not be communicating with you and you'll just be standing there on the side of the road. Absolutely it is the number one way of communicating so I really encourage you to download that. Don't buy property on your first trip down here and that might seem strange coming from me but really I think the best way to do it is take your time. People get a little bit of a fever they first come down here because everything is so amazing and so even if your attention is to buy a property down here I just take your time. Most people come down in the high season the first trip absolutely falling in love with it and my recommendation is always just go home think about it plan a trip down here in the lower season where everything's much cheaper the weather's different. Look at it with fresh eyes and the second time you'll come down you'll feel like you're a bit of an expert because you've got connections and you've the people you've found on the first trip and you'll be welcome back and you'll start to feel part of the community. My interest is you find something that's right for you for the long term. The people that buy here end up becoming my neighbours and my friends so I really want everybody to make a very good decision as to where and how much they want to spend and if Costa Rica is really for them. And this one's for me as well as as everybody don't fall in love with a Costa Rican girl. Costa Rican girls are amazing, beautiful, friendly, lovely, hot, passionate, Latina. But they're not the most painful people in the world. I say that would love. There's Joker, the Costa Rican girl walks into hallmark a few days before Valentine's days, says to the guy do you have a card that says when I met you I was just an innocent girl. You taught me everything that I know, you fulfilled me. I want to spend the rest of my life with you and the whole mob goes, guy goes, well yeah actually I do have a card that says exactly that and she says great, give me five of them please. Now it's a bit harsh and I've got good friends that are very happy married to Costa Rica and for many many years and they've got families and everything worked perfectly but all I'd say is just don't brush into things just take your time. Don't pay too much in bribes to get out traffic fines. Now it's illegal to pay bribes, you could get to trouble so take care but every policeman I've ever met ends up asking for one and it seems to be the normal thing to do so just go into this with your eyes open. Generally in Costa Rica you're paying people to either do their job better or faster or do their job worse and so if you get stopped for speeding or not wearing a seatbelt or anything like that this is the way it will go. So they'll come up to you and the guy will be very stern and you've done this wrong, you've done that wrong and that means the fines are going to be $500 or whatever the number is in Colones. We're going to take your car away and you're not going to be able to leave the country until you've gone to court and you're going oh my god this is really terrible, it's really terrible. And then you float out something oh my goodness you know is there any way we can settle this now? I'm doing on the spot fire and he'll go and he'll get his book out and as soon as he starts to actually write the fine out then then it's a point of no return because he has to fill that in if he's got half filled out one but what he tends to do is lick his pen and hold his book like that and then maybe you'll flip over to a blank sheet of paper and to start to write your name down or something and then at that point you know you're in the negotiating cycle and often when you're going through because you're fairly tens you're thinking oh my god that's your founder the only honest cop in in the country but it's all part of negotiation and then he'll say well you know we really shouldn't because by the way the police if they get caught they get to a lot of trouble it's just they never see if you get caught because it's so normal and then he'll say well your fines should be $500 if you give me $200 then we'll move on now any Costa Rica that gets stopped he's paying $10 $5 as a foreigner $20 is a lot but so you just could then go into your charming self-effacing you know really I can't you know I've just spent this and I've only got this much and I need to go and get petrol and then get dinner for my wife who's pregnant and whatever it is and then you just start the negotiation and then your hand is booking and like with his fingers underneath and then you just sort of slot the note into there and then then you give your passport back and everything and wish you on your on your way take a lot of care with that you know it's it's the normal way of what Costa Rica is normally doing a traffic stop and it'll probably give you your best anecdote of your whole trip but just going to the ISO. Don't come to Costa Rica without planning your internet connection I know it sounds horrible you're here to enjoy the beaches and the jungles and things but really having a consistent internet connection is going to make your life so much easier people that come down here and neither rely on hotel Wi-Fi or they're paying by the hour of their internet connection so they only have a connective for a few minutes a day or whatever every interaction you have with your booking or fishing trip or your driver to take you to Mamma Antonio or whatever you're doing you're going to need that constant interaction most North American carriers they'll do a package where you can come and hold a and you're covered in Costa Rica so that's your easiest one second as long as you've got an unlocked phone you can buy a Costa Rica chip probably for $10 you can get a card you slot it into your phone and then you're covered for your your whole period down here so one way or another I really recommend you figure that out before you come down here don't use Google Maps use Waze Waze at E Waze is like an intelligent version of Google Maps that gets feedback in real time from other people on the same road as you at the head of you so for example if there's an accident ahead then it will update your app in real time and calculate a different route for you it's really amazing and even if you're on a back road in the middle of the night in the middle of Costa Rica and also just really trust Waze every time when Waze is telling me to go one way and after 20 years ago no no no I know that the other way is better sure enough if I don't follow Waze something's happened the road blocked or the tree in the road or something like that the back road here are really back roads so you know you might if you're finding a shortcut on the map and Waze is sending you a different way it's almost always for a reason it could be a really rough road I trust Waze that's always the way for me to get to my destination as quick as possible so it's just it just really works very well so please if you find out any of this useful please click below like subscribe and get an alert so you get notified when the next one's coming out and it also gives me a little boost and I know that people are really you know interested in when I see those excellent BPPB we're subscribed tonight gives me an extra little boost and it makes me feel like it's worthwhile to be spending my time sharing my experiences and trying to help you to have a better time during your stay in the industryLocated between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, Costa Rica, officially called the Republic of Costa Rica, stands as one of the most vibrant countries in Central America, attracting over 4.5 million people every year. Commonly known as the Land of the Fire, this small country contains 5% of the world's biodiversity, from the misty cloud forests of Monteverde to the pristine shores of Manuel Antonio, here are the 25 best places to visit in Costa Rica. 25. Uvita. Uvita, located in the South Pacific region of Costa Rica, is a town situated along Bahia Bayena, named after the humpback whales that migrate to this area twice each year. Uvita itself is a small, relaxed town where local businesses line both paved and unpaid roads under a canopy of trees. It's recognized as a blue zone, where a significant number of centenarians live, attributed to healthy lifestyle practices. Marino Bayena National Park stands out among the places to visit, with beautiful beaches like Baya Uvita, while Baya Grande is known for its consistent surf and stunning sunsets. The Uvita waterfall offers a cool refreshing break in the rainforest. Nearby, Ojo Chal is noted for its arc galleries and restaurants, offering a serene atmosphere. The whale watching is a highlight, with the opportunity to see humpback whales during their migration periods. The whale's tail at Baya Uvita is a unique geological formation and a national symbol. Surfing at Baya Grande is popular due to its excellent waves, and the hiking trails and Marino Bayena National Park lead to waterfalls and secluded beaches. 24. Tamarindo. Tamarindo is a lively beach town attracting visitors with its diverse array of attractions and activities. It's a standout feature, characterized by a horseshoe-shaped bay surrounded by palm trees and the expansive Pacific Ocean. The town benefits from a dry climate and consistent sunshine, making it an appealing destination throughout the year. Some key places to visit include Baya Tamarindo, known for its surfing opportunities, suitable for beginners and intermediate surfers. Alongside the chance to enjoy sunbathing and witness stunning sunsets. Las Balas National Marine Park provides a unique opportunity to observe leatherback turtles nesting, while the Tamarindo Wildlife Refuge invites exploration of its mangrove ecosystems, home to diverse wildlife such as monkeys and crocodiles. Tamarindo has evolved from a quiet fishing village into a popular tourist destination, while maintaining its relaxed atmosphere. The nightlife is lively, and the local cuisine is a highlight featuring fresh seafood and traditional Costa Rican dishes, such as gallopinto. The ethos of Budavida, translating to pure life, captures the essence of the Tamarindo lifestyle, emphasizing a relaxed and joyful approach to life, so engaging with the local culture enriches the experience, whether through attending traditional dance performances or learning Spanish phrases. 23. Santa Teresa. Santa Teresa is a beach town haven for anyone looking to relax amid natural beauty. Located on the Pacific Coast, Santa Teresa is surrounded by several beautiful beaches. Originally a small fishing village, Santa Teresa has evolved into a popular tourist destination, known for its eco-conscious initiatives and waste reduction programs. Here, you have a variety of places to explore. The Guru Wildlife Refuge offers a chance to learn about and interact with rescued animals. For a different experience, the land and sea park provides opportunities for horseback riding on the beach, exploring tide pools and enjoying ocean views. Santa Teresa is not just about surfing, the town has a vibrant yoga community with numerous classes, retreats and workshops. Santa Teresa is a part of the world's most popular activity, allowing visitors to explore the coastline and mangrove forests. Sunset cruises offer a memorable way to end the day, with stunning views as the sun sets over the ocean. A practical tip for you is to rent a bike or a TV, allowing for independent exploration of the area, discovering hidden beaches, local restaurants and shops at a leisurely pace. 22. Samara. Samara captures the essence of a laid-back lifestyle, founded in the 1960s by American surfers and named after the native Samara tree, the town is cradled in a small bay, with Blyas Samara as its central beach. The main beach, Blyas Samara, is a haven for you to relax and engage in water sports. Isla Kora, or short distance away, is a wildlife reserve with pink sand beaches and a habitat for various bird species, while the Buena Vista estuary is a sanctuary for crocodiles, herons and other wildlife. Samara's town center, central Samara, is the heart of local life. The area is not only a draw for beach goers, but also for you to experience the local culture and cuisine. Beyond the well-known attractions, Samara offers hidden gems, such as Blya Barrigona, a secluded beach known for its stunning rock formations and tide pools and Sipanki Waterfall, a hidden cascade within the rainforest. And the Samara farmers market is a place to find fresh produce, local crafts and souvenirs, locating the town's commitment to sustainability and the Buena Vista lifestyle. 21. Rincn de la Vieja, National Park. Rincn de la Vieja, National Park, located in the Guanacaste province of northwestern Costa Rica, offers an area of over 34,000 acres. The park's name is derived from a local legend about an old woman who lived in the crater of the volcano. In fact, this region is defined by its two active volcanoes. Rincn de la Vieja, the oldest and largest volcano in Guanacaste, and Santa Maria, along with the dormant Cerro von Sibak. The park is divided into sectors, with the last Baila sector being home to some of the park's most popular attractions. The Baila's trail, a one and a half mile path, winds past phenomena like steaming mudpots and the turquoise waters of Laguna Asul. If you're seeking a more strenuous activity, the von Sibak trail is a four mile hike leading to the summit of Cerro von Sibak, rewarding hikers with panoramic views. The Santa Maria sector offers a quieter experience. Attractions here include the enchanted forest waterfall, a 30 foot cascade, surrounded by lush vegetation, and Laguna de los Gilgeros, a crater lake ideal for birdwatching and hiking. You can engage in a variety of activities within the park. Horseback riding and white water rafting on the Rio Negro offer different ways to explore the park's natural beauty. Conversely, the natural hot springs provide a relaxing way to unwind after a day of activities. 20. Getples. Getples, a lively town, is more than a tourist destination. It's a place where everyone can enjoy. Getples was named after the indigenous Wethod people who once lived in the area. It played a significant role in the banana tree in the early 20th century. The main attraction in Getples is Manuel Antonio National Park, where you can hike through rainforests, relax on secluded beaches, and enjoy coastal views. Marino Bayana National Park is another highlight where you can see humpback whales between December and April. Explore coves and beaches and kayak through mangrove forests, teaming with life. Getples is renowned for sport fishing, offering chances to catch Marlin, Tuna, and other big fish. Zip lining and canopy tours offer an adrenaline rush and spectacular views of the surrounding. 19. Puerto Viejo. Puerto Viejo de Tala Manca sits on the southeastern Caribbean coast of Costa Rica in the limn province. Founded in the 1860s by Jamaican immigrants, Puerto Viejo is a melting pot of cultures. Spanish is the official language, yet many residents also speak English and Bribri. It's surrounded by the Gandoka, Manzanillo, National Wildlife Refuge. A protected area offering a diverse range of natural attractions. Among its natural attractions, Baya Negra, stands out with its distinctive black sand, attracting surfers, swimmers, and sunbaters alike. Salza Brava, another highlight, offers some of the most powerful waves in the world, drawing surf enthusiasts from across the globe. Then the Jaguar Rescue Center provides an opportunity to see the rehabilitation and release of injured and orphaned wild cats and other animals, offering a closer look at the region's wildlife. Cahuita National Park is renowned for its coral reef and a shipwreck dive site, offering unique underwater experiences. The Talamanca Indigenous Reserve introduces you to the culture and traditions of the Bribri and Cabecar Indigenous communities, providing a deep dive into the area's rich culture. 18 Nosara, Nosara, a district and village on the Nikoya Peninsula in Costa Rica's Guanacoste province is recognized as one of the blue zones, where residents tend to live longer, healthier lives. The village is situated approximately 6 kilometers inland from the beach. A decision that helps preserve the coastline's natural beauty. The beaches in Nosara are a highlight for visitors. Surfers find a paradise here, with some of the world's most consistent waves. The village has attracted a diverse community of expats, including surfers, yogis, and artists, since it's founding in the 1970s, by surfers seeking a quieter life. Bliagiones, Peters to Beginners and Intermediates, while Bliapelada offers more challenging waves. Papaya Osteonal is notable for being a nesting site for olive-riddly turtles from July to December, providing a unique opportunity to witness this natural phenomenon. You can take guided tours to learn about turtle conservation. Additionally, the Boditri Yoga Resort is renowned for its yoga classes, workshops, and retreats, providing a serene environment for relaxation and rejuvenation. 17 Montezuma, Montezuma attracts a diverse crowd of visitors, seeking tranquility, adventure, and a connection with nature. The geography of Montezuma is remarkable, with its location on the Nikoya Peninsula. Despite its name suggesting a connection to Aztec Emperor Montezuma II, the towns' historical ties are more myth than reality, with the name likely inspired by the perceived wealth of the area by Spanish conquistadors. Attractions such as the Cabo Blanco Nature Reserve highlight the area's commitment to preserving its natural wonders. You can hike through very trails, enjoy sightings of local wildlife, and experience stunning coastal views. The presence of Blya Noudista, a clothing optional beach, highlights the towns' open and accepting nature. The phenomenon of bioluminescent plankton lighting up the ocean at night provides a surreal experience, best enjoyed on a kayak tour under the stars. And the local markets in Montezuma are a reflection of its cultural vitality, offering artisanal crafts, artwork, and local cuisine, allowing you to immerse themselves in the community's creative spirit. 16 Monteverde Packing for a trip to Monteverde means preparing for an experience unlike any other. This destination, located in Costa Rica's Puterina's province within the Cordillera de Tilaran Mountain Range, is a four-hour drive from the Central Valley. The area, known as the Green Mountain, is a testament to its lush, verdant landscape, dominated by the iconic cloud forests that define its horizon. At an elevation of 4662 feet, the views of rolling green hills and valleys are nothing short of breathtaking. The founding of Monteverde in the 1950s by Quaker families aimed at preserving the delicate ecosystem has left the lasting legacy of environmental stewardship. The altitude of Monteverde creates a unique microclimate. Cool temperatures and frequent misty clouds are the norm here, fostering a thriving ecosystem within the cloud forest. Monteverde's cloud forest biological reserve stands out as a primary attraction. This reserve spans over 25,000 acres, protecting a vast expanse of cloud forest, teeming with life. It offers trails like the San Deiro Bantanillo for those preferring moderate hikes, and the Bosque Nuboso Trail for more challenging tracks. Close by, the Santa Elena Cloud Forest Reserve provides a more personal encounter with nature, offering its own unique trails and breathtaking views. El Batuda Park introduces a dose of adventure, with zip lining and hanging bridges, while the Monteverde, Orchid Garden and the Bat Jungle offer more serene experiences, showcasing the region's diverse orchid species and an alternate exhibit of bats, respectively. 15. Manuel Antonio National Park Manuel Antonio National Park is a slice of paradise, located about 130 km south of San Jose. Established in 1972, the park plays a crucial role in conservation and serves as a significant economic driver for the region through tourism. This park, though compact, encompasses 683 hectares of where monkey swing from the trees, sloths lounge in the canopy, iguanas sun themselves on rocks and hundreds of birds species fill the air with their calls. Despite its size, Manuel Antonio National Park is one of Costa Rica's most beloved parks. Among the must-visit spots within the park, the Manuel Antonio Nature Trail, known for its stunning coastal views, winds through the rainforest, offering glimpses of the area's biodiversity. La Plaita, a small and secluded beach, provides a quiet escape from the more frequented spots. Nearby, Buntacatadral, with its rocky outcrops, offers panoramic views of the surrounding park and ocean, while Espadilla Sur attracts surfers with strong waves. If you're looking to delve deeper into the park's offerings, they're hidden gems like the La Selva Trail, less crowded, yet equally captivating with its views. And the Manuel Antonio Waterfalls offer a refreshing retreat, while middle coops trail leads to a secluded beach rarely visited by tourists. 14 La Fortuna, heading to La Fortuna, you're stepping into a realm under the Arrenal Volcano's majestic presence. This spot in the northern highlands of Costa Rica is a couple of hours northwest of San Jose, surrounded by the Arrenal Volcano National Park, if features the active Arrenal Volcano, the dormant Chato Volcano, and the expansive Lake Arrenal, setting the stage for a variety of water activities and breathtaking views. Arrenal Volcano's unexpected eruption in 1968 marked a pivotal moment for La Fortuna, transforming it into a destination rich in natural wonders. The geothermal activity of the Tabacn River creates inviting hot springs, each with its unique temperature and mineral content. The La Fortuna, the Arrenal Volcano itself, offers hiking and biking through the National Park, with opportunities to see lava flows at night or relax in the natural hot springs of the Tabacn River. Another highlight is the La Fortuna Waterfall, a 230-foot fall that cascades into refreshing pool perfect for a swim after a hike through the rainforest. The mystical hanging bridges present an aerial view of the forest, allowing close encounters with diverse wildlife, while the Maleku Cultural Experience provides insights into the life and traditions of the indigenous Maleku people. For the optimal experience visiting La Fortuna during the dry season from December to April, ensures sunny days filled with outdoor activities. Additionally, learning some basic Spanish phrases can enrich interactions with locals, making the trip even more memorable. 13. Hakko You're on your way down the Costa Rican coast, a mere hour and a half from San Jose, and you arrive in Hakko. Once a small fishing village, Hakko has evolved into a major tourist destination. Its name, derived from the indigenous word, Yaco, meaning water, reflects its coastal essence. The town is celebrated for its Pudavila lifestyle, emphasizing a laid-back approach to life. The beach stretches for miles, with black sand underfoot, inviting visitors to surf swim or simply enjoy the sun. The town of Hakko is lively, its main street filled with shops, restaurants and bars. It's developed yet retains a charm that draws people from all walks of life. Nearby, natural wonders such as Garara National Park offer glimpses of diverse wildlife, including crocodiles and scarlet macaws, while Manuel Antonio National Park is renowned for its beautiful beaches and rainforests. Hakko Beach stands out as the central hub ideal for surfing or soaking in the atmosphere. Headmost of beach, just south, caters to surfers looking for bigger waves, for unique experience, sea hog wild waterfall. In Pudavila Park is a hidden gem worth visiting. Nightlife in Hakko is lively, with bars, clubs and live music venues providing entertainment into the early hours. 12. Drake Bay Drake Bay is a remote haven known to be accessible only by plane or boat. Its isolation adds to the charm, ensuring a peaceful escape and agujitas. A nearby town with around a thousand residents. The area stands out as one of the most biodivers places on earth, with Drake Bay positioned at its heart. The Bay carries a historical allure, named after Sir Francis Drake, whose rumor to have hidden treasure in the area during his 16th century voyages. Among the most visit sites is Korkovato National Park. Its hiking trails lead through environments rich with animal species. The Sida and Arranger Station, accessible by Haik or Kayaq, provides a closer look at the areas on touch beauty and elusive wildlife. Drake Bay's less explore attractions include Pudavila Cloudo National Wildlife Refuge, offering trails through rainned forests to secluded beaches, and a chance to see wildlife such as sloths and crocodiles. The remote Sida and a biological station showcases conservation efforts and hosts unique species like the Beards to Pier. Night Tours provide a glimpse into the forest's nocturnal life, featuring creatures like tree frogs, owls, kinkajus and agujitas. Committed to sustainable tourism, Drake Bay's eco-loges and tour operators focus on environmental protection and supporting local communities. 11. Dominic Al Traveling down Costa Rica's southern Pacific Coast leads you to Dominic Al, a small beach town located about 80 km south of Manuel Antonio National Park. Dominic Al's transformation from a small fishing village to a tourist destination has been significant. The town's name derives from Domingo, a Spanish missionary who arrived in the 16th century. The main attraction, Blya Dominic Al, is renowned for its consistent waves, drawing surfers of varying skill levels. Close by, the Blya National Marine Park serves as a protective haven for an array of marine life, providing visitors with the opportunity to observe these creatures in their natural setting through boat tours. Another notable site is the Nauyaka Waterfalls, accessible via hike through the rainforest, offering a picturesque spot for swimming and photography. Blya Dominic Alito, a quieter beach compared to its more popular counterpart, offers a more relaxed atmosphere. The hidden waterfall, Katarata El Salto, provides a secluded spot for refreshing swim. La Katarata Ecolhica, an eco-lodge, offers breathtaking views of the rainforests and sustainable activities like zip lining and butterfly watching. 10. Corcovado National Park Corcovado National Park, a jewel on the Osa Peninsula, unfolds over 424 square kilometers, guarding a significant portion of this lush area. This park, located in the southwest corner of Costa Rica, stretches its Pacific coastline over 46 kilometers, creating a sanctuary for both beach lovers and wildlife watchers. Corcovado's significance extends beyond its beauty. Hosting 4% of the world's known animal species, it's a critical biodiversity spot. With over half of its expanse still uncharted, Corcovado represents a frontier for exploration and conservation, underscoring Costa Rica's dedication to protecting its natural heritage. The park sets the stage for an array of activities and sites. Ranger stations serve as entry points to the wilderness. Sidena Biological Station, accessible only by boat or plane, offers rustic accommodations amid dense rainforests, promising an immersive experience. La Leona Station, on the other hand, provides easy beach access and a variety of trails. Birdwatchers gravitate towards Los Patos Station, where a lagoon teams with bird life. The San Pedro Ranger Station presents opportunities for rainforests, hikes and beach relaxation. 9. Chiripo National Park Chiripo National Park, situated in the Tala Manca mountain range, is the country's largest national park, covering over 123,544 acres. This expansive park spans a range of elevations, from 2953 feet to 12,533 feet at the summit of Cerro Chiripo, Costa Rica's highest mountain and the second highest in Central America. The park encompasses five distinct life zones. The summit of Cerro Chiripo, the park's primary highlight, offers breathtaking use of both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans on clear days. The challenging hike to the summit rewards hikers with unparalleled vistas. Along the way, Yanobornito offers a resting spot with basic shelter and camping facilities. Nearby, El Paraiso, the main shelter for hikers provides bunks, a kitchen and restrooms. Other natural attractions include Laguna Bargas, a stunning glacial lake near the summit, and Los Cristones, remarkable rock formations that provide panoramic views of the Tala Manca range. The park is a favorite destination for outdoor activities, such as hiking, with trails that cater to varying skill levels and fishing, is also permitted in some of the park's rivers and lakes. 8. Cartajo. Cartajo is located in Costa Rica's Central Valley. It was once the nation's capital, and is now known as Ciudad de las Brumas, or City of Mistes. A name derived from the frequent volcanic clouds surrounding its peaks. It's marked by the presence of Iraz Volcano, the country's highest active peak, providing breathtaking vistas. It's proximity to San Jose, just a 30-minute drive away, makes Cartajo a convenient escape from the capital's faster pace. Among the most visit sites, the Basilica of Our Lady of the Angel stands out. This Basilica houses Ladnegrita, a small dark-skinned Madonna statue, attracting millions of pilgrims each August. Nearby, the ruins of the Santiago Apstol Paris Church offer a glimpse into the city's colonial past. While the Lancaster Botanical Garden is home to over 1,500 species of orchids, presenting a colorful and fragrant array of flowers. The city's coffee legacy dates back to the 18th century, with local farms offering insights into the being-to-brood process. Despite the 1963 eruption of Iraz Volcano, which blanketed San Jose and ash, Cartajo was spared, highlighting its unique resilience. The festivals, like Los Higantes, featuring giant paper-mach figures, reflect the vibrant local culture. 7. Gajuita. Gajuita sits on Costa Rica's Caribbean coast, close to the Panamanian border. This charming village offers a laid-back vibe and features a blend of Afro-Caribbean and Indigenous influences. Gajuita's culture dates back to its founding by an Afro-Caribbean family in 1828. The village is small, characterized by a relaxed atmosphere and friendly local. The heart of Gajuita is its national park, which encompasses both land and sea. The park protects a diverse ecosystem. Visitors can hike through the rainforest, relax on beaches like Blaya Blanca, or snorkel among colorful coral reefs teeming with marine life. Another notable beach is Blaya Negra, distinguished by its black volcanic sand and popular among surfers for its challenging ways. Just a short drive north, Puerto Viejo de Tala Manca presents a lively atmosphere. The town is known for its Caribbean cuisine and vibrant nightlife. Its deep connection to Calipso music has earned it the title King of Calipso. For the best experience visiting Gajuita during the dry season, from March to May, or September to November, is advisable. The community's commitment to sustainable practices and eco-tourism underscores its appeal as a responsible travel destination. 6. Cabo Blanco Nature Reserve Cabo Blanco Nature Reserve on the southern tip of Costa Rica's Nicolia Peninsula is the country's first protected area, established in 1963. This place initiated Costa Rica's renowned commitment to conservation. The reserve covers 3,393 acres, searching for two miles, providing stunning ocean views. You can explore the reserve through hiking trails, such as a 2.5 miles sweckel trail or the shorter Danes Trail, which leads through different landscapes and offers chances to see hidden waterfalls and impressive ocean vistas. At the end of the sweckel trail, Blaya Blanco awaits as a perfect spot for swimming or sunbathing with its calm waters and picturesque setting. Although not accessible by public trails, Blaya Quebos on the reserve's western side is a secluded beach, offering a more untouched experience for more adventurous explorers. Cabo Blanco has been influential in pioneering eco-tourism in Costa Rica, demonstrating the benefits of conservation and sustainable tourism. The reserve's establishment by Swedish philanthropist Olaf Westberg underscores its historical significance and his vision of creating a sanctuary for future generations. 5. Aranal Volcano National Park Located in the north central region of Costa Rica, Aranal Volcano National Park is a standout destination. Near the town of La Fortuna, this park is home to the Aranal Volcano, recognized as the most active volcano in Costa Rica, alongside Lake Aranal, the largest lake in the country. Central to the park is the Aranal Volcano, its active state allows you to witness nature's raw power with frequent ash and lava displays. Trails such as La Fortuna and the 1968 trail offer pathways to closer views of this natural marvel. Lake Aranal complements the volcanic landscape, offering a serene setting with several resorts dotting its shores for your relaxation alongside nature. For a different perspective, the mastico-hanging bridges presents an aerial view of the park's verdant ecosystems through a series of suspended bridges. Similarly, the La Fortuna waterfall, with its impressive 230-foot drop, invites visitors to swim in its refreshing pool. The Tabakon hot springs naturally heated by volcanic activity provide a relaxing soak in various tempered pools, enhancing the experience with amenities like a swimmer bar and a restaurant. The exhilaration of white water rafting, the tranquility of a boat tour on Lake Aranal, and the thrill of zip lining through the rainforest canopy offer unique experiences in nature. The mastico-hanging bridges further enrich the visit by providing insights into the ecosystem's complexity. 4. Alajuela. Alajuela, tucked within Costa Rica's central valley, offers a unique experience for travelers. As the capital of Alajuela province and part of the greater metropolitan area, it's often overlooked due to its proximity to San Jose. The climate is predominantly tropical, featuring warm temperatures and a rainy season from May to November that nourishes its vibrant ecosystem. Alajuela's heart is best experienced in places like Juan Santa Maria Park, where the red-doned central church stands as a landmark. The statue of Juan Santa Maria commemorates a national hero, and the Alejandro Moreiro Soto Stadium is a gathering place for sports fans. The Alajuela's central market offers a glimpse into local life, with its array of hand-crafted souvenirs and fresh produce. Alajuela has earned several nicknames reflecting its identity, including the land of mangoes due to its abundance of the fruit. It's also recognized for its rich literary heritage, evidenced by a high number of public libraries, and the presence of traditional, ox-drawn carts highlight its cultural significance. 3. Coco's Island. Coco's Island, or Isla del Coco, stands 342 miles off the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica, alone on top of the Coco's plate. This unique positioning contributes to its status as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Mountain is terrain-dominates with Sero-Eglicia's the highest peak reaching 1800 feet. For you, Chavim Bay serves as the main entry point, offering access to stunning beaches, hiking trails and historical sites, including a cemetery and inscription rocks. Way for Bay and Manuelita Island provide further exploration opportunities with the former known for excellent snorkeling and diving, and the latter for its importance as a sea bird nesting ground. The most island's significance and stands beyond its shores, serving as a critical habitat for sharks, including resident populations of hammerheads and the elusive oceanic white tip. The island is also home to over 2,000 plant species, many of which are endemic, highlighting its role as a sanctuary for biodiversity. Visiting Coco's Island, you must navigate logistical challenges, including obtaining permits and preparing for the island's remote location and conservation status. Despite the potential for rough seas and limited amenities, the island's natural beauty and the promise of adventure make the journey worthwhile. 2. Tortugero National Park Tortugero National Park, located in the northeastern region of Costa Rica, is a complex network of waterways, all intertwined by lush rainforest. This unique park, shaped by ancient volcanic activity, is only accessible by boat or plain, adding a sense of mystery. Tortugero National Park, named after the Green Sea Turtle, plays a crucial role in the conservation of these and other endangered turtle species. The park's environment is rich and humid, thanks to an annual waterfall of 250 inches fostering a lush habitat. It stands as one of the most biodiverse regions on Earth, a paradise for birdwatchers and nature enthusiasts. Tortugero is recognized for a remarkable biodiversity, encompassing 11 distinct habitats ranging from mangrove forests to freshwater swamps. The park is famed for the spectacle of green turtles and leatherback turtles nesting on its beaches from July to October. Tortugero's park tours offer a respectful way to witness this natural event. The network of canals presents opportunities for boat tours, where visitors can spot diverse wildlife in a quiet setting. You're encouraged to respect the park's guidelines to preserve its natural beauty and wildlife. Some responsible wildlife watching practices are to observe animals from a distance without causing disturbance, which is essential for the well-being of Tortugero's diverse inhabitants. 1. San Jose The capitol of Costa Rica holds the title of the largest city in the country, enveloped by green mountains and majestic volcanoes such as Irazu and Polaz. San Jose is affectionately known as the city of flowers, reflecting its floral abundance throughout the year. This city's unique setting in the Central Valley provides a climate with cool nights and warm days, thanks to its elevation of 3845 feet. Exploring San Jose offers a blend of historical and natural attractions, Mario Amon, a historic neighborhood, showcases colonial-era architecture alongside a vibrant street art scene inviting you to soak in the local atmosphere. The Teatro Nacional stands out for its neoclassical architecture, serving as a monument and venue for performances and cultural events. And the Museo Nacional de Costa Rica presents a comprehensive look at the country's history, featuring pre-columnant artifacts and colonial art. For a taste of local life, the central market is a hub of activity, with its array of fresh produce, flowers, handicrafts and traditional foods. The city's lesser known attractions provide unique experiences. Barrio Escalante has emerged as a gastronomic destination with its selection of restaurants and cafes. The Museo de Javi displays an impressive collection of pre-columnian Jade Artifacts, offering insights into the region's ancient cultures. The Juan Santa Maria coffee tour educates visitors on the coffee-making process, from being to come. Additionally, the National Gallery located in a former prison showcases contemporary Costa Rican art. The city's atmosphere is a reflection of Costa Rica's ranking as one of the happiest countries globally. Characterized by a positive and relaxed lifestyle, while San Jose is considered safe, you're advised to exercise caution in crowded areas, ensuring a pleasant experience in this dynamic city. If you're looking for any tips to enhance your own personal travel and help you manage your travel budget more effectively, click the link in the description. Remember to like and subscribe to help our channel grow.10 years ago, I would not have believed you if you told me that this is where we would be. I am absolutely more happy here than in the United States. Energetically, it's lighter and again, it's not just the lower cost of living, the improved quality of life. It's the environment, it's the people too. So the Costa Rican people, they smile and they greet you. They call you daughter or queen or beauty or immoranite that, you know, and it's always love. I'm Kim Award, I'm 41 years old. I'm Nicholas Haber and I'm 43 years old. Our family relocated from the United States to Costa Rica. And this is how we live off a $30,000 a year. The biggest change financially coming from the U.S. to Costa Rica is being able to work for ourselves. In the United States, we earned six figures, but we were both doing work that we didn't love. Living here has allowed me to explore my passions so that my methods of earning income don't feel like a job. It just feels like I'm getting to do the things that I love to do, which is to be of service. We were living in Houston, Texas before we decided to move to Costa Rica. Once we decided at the end of 2017, if this is what we were going to do, we tightened up on our budget and we did start saving to make the transition. And then the selling of all of our items gave us a good sum to get here and get started. We did pretty much start over. And I think between the two of us, we had four suitcases and two backpacks. We had not seen the home that we rented. There was a lot of jungle creatures that we encountered. We experienced many insects, many bugs, we've had snake encounters. So it just took a moment to figure out how to work with our environment. Our money absolutely goes further here than in the U.S. We make less money, but we're still living pretty comfortably. 2023 was a rough year, but we're still okay because we're entrepreneurs. Our income fluctuates, but our money definitely goes further. We would never have made it alone. We would probably have to move in with my mom. If we were making what we make now in the United States. It was done here in Benini, Sanlo. In Costa Rica, we probably spend the most money on food. We spare zero expenses when it comes to our food. I was diagnosed with cancer in April of 2016. Undergoing chemotherapy as treatment for the breast cancer was one of the hardest things that I've ever done in my life. I only completed half of the prescribed infusions because I felt like if I did any more that it would kill me. So we quit and we chose a naturopathic route. We had already planned our wedding for July 30th of 2016. And my boss at the time told me, don't let cancer take anything else from you. One of the things that we noticed immediately was that my energy was coming back rapidly. Much faster than it had been while I was in the States. I was eating more, I was moving more, and I just really felt like I was healing while we were here. I think the food and the clean air and water really had an impact on me as we were progressing through the wedding and the honeymoon. Coming back to Houston, we both had this calmness about us. And I actually felt like we were missing out on something since we were coming back to the States. I was really excited with the newfound energy that I had and the mental clarity that I had. And then I was a little saddened because it only lasted for about a week or two. Before I was like really tired again. Another pivotal moment in our decision to leave the United States was when we lost our home to Hurricane Harvey. And we ended up living in a stranger's garage apartment in our neighborhood for a year while we searched for another home. The housing market was insane in Houston during that time because of so many people losing their homes. And after we missed out on the third home, Nick was like, well maybe we should just move. We have nothing holding us here. And I thought he meant to another state or another city, but he was like, no, let's leave the country. In Costa Rica, I feel that people are treated as humans first. That's not always been my experience in the United States. I feel like I'm seen as a black woman first and that doesn't have the positive connotation that it does here. The quality of life in Costa Rica is so much different in the US for a myriad of reasons. My top two would be community and the way that the people will help. It's almost expected on their part. The second aspect for me is healthcare and the affordability of healthcare and the holisticness of the healthcare. We had to go to the emergency room. We have no insurance at the time. They did an EKG, a chest x-ray, an ultrasound and a cancer screening. And when I checked out 90 minutes later, it cost me 160 bucks basically and that's me rounding up. The main health benefits I've noticed since moving to Costa Rica immediately was the weight loss. Also, I have been told that I would not be able to have any more children without the help of fertility specialists because of the chemo and the cancer. And we were pregnant 13 to 14 months after moving here and that was a huge surprise. I am also now cancer free and I really do believe that is because of being here. The most challenging aspect for me transitioning to Costa Rica was just missing people like family and friends. When my sister passed, I was not able to go home. It wasn't just being in Costa Rica, it was COVID as well. So that was really, really difficult to not be able to go be with my family when we suffered such a big loss. We see Costa Rica as our home base for the rest of our lives. But I know for a fact that we still have this passion to travel the world. I want to go since a few months in Colombia, we want to go to Ghana, Tanzania, we want to go to Europe. So I think Costa Rica will always be home based. This is where we will always return to. But I can't say that we won't spend a year somewhere else in the world at some point in the future. Our financial goal is to build a nice thinker for our family. And to rebuild our savings. I am definitely happier living in Costa Rica than I used to be in the United States. I've gained my family back. I've gained the opportunity to spend time with them and create more freedom in myself. But also freedom within our family to explore our dreams and our passions. Thank you.What's going on island hopper today we're coming to you from Tamarindo Beach in the Pacific coast of Costa Rica let's begin. So Tamarindo is located in the Guana Costa province in the northern part of Costa Rica just south of Papagayo Gulf another really popular place with luxury travelers in Costa Rica so what we're going to do in this Tamarindo beach travel guide show you guys around the beach the town show you where we stayed also take you out on a booze cruise. This beach here is popular with surfers because of the strong currents also a voting community exists here as you can see with all the boats off the shore and people like to do horseback riding I'm not too sure how I feel about that since you know what the horses do on the beach. So while we were sitting down having breakfast I ended up buying this hat obviously for about 20 U.S. dollars I think it's a good value but one thing I will say is we ended up booking a tour to go out on a catamaran sometimes they call it a booze cruise I don't know if they're going to sell on this a booze cruise but it includes snorkeling we're going to go out there have some fun that ended up costing $80 per person if I wanted to pay using a credit card it was going to be $95 so having cash on you does pay around here. Before we go out on that sunset cruise let's take a walk around the town show you what it looks like here in the actual neighborhood if you guys watch my other video about the downtown walking tour you guys can go back and watch it if you haven't already seen it but I really highlighted this downtown area in that video so we're just having some drinks before we're getting ready to go out on the catamaran it's a chilly motto you give it to me for free so here we are on Plya Tamarindo which obviously translates to Tamarindo Beach if you look back over here you can see the restaurants right up against the ocean here some hotels but most of the hotels are actually going to be back up the hill bit which is good in case there's a tsunami by but where we're actually headed now is on a catamaran headed out to the ocean del mar we're going to go around this point did you see right over here and then we're going to go to a private beach snorkel for about an hour or so but we're going to have a lot of fun you guys are going to love this one so stay around already let's do this you know on these kind of sunset cruises they say going out there people are kind of relaxed but on the way back they're really partying this crew that we went out with everybody was having fun on the way out and on the way back so this was a pretty lit crew right here but it's also probably because we left at 12 o'clock in the afternoon so so so See we made it to the shore. I use these floaties, you don't need them but I'm such a, you know, worry-ward. I wear them anyway, just in case, you know, high tide or something. But you made it to this beach, check it out. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. I'm going to use these floaties, you know, high tide or something. We're at Lapa Lapa. Cheers. Yeah, so we got a lobster here. I got mixed veggies and mashed potatoes. So this is a fresh lobster straight out of Costa Rica. Let's dive in. Here's a look at the hotel we stayed at. It was $100 a night. You stayed two nights here, but it was a doll's only. So after being in some resource with lots of kids screaming, hanging out at the pool, I was ready for an adult only pool for sure. Also really good for working and getting things done. So we're going to use these floaties. So we're going to use these floaties. So we're going to use these floaties. So we're going to use these floaties. So we're going to use these floaties. So we're going to use these floaties. So after a few days in Tamarindo, pleasant relaxing days, by the way, we decided to head down to the Nikoia Peninsula. So you'll want to stick around for the next one because we're going to be coming to you from La Sanzita, Santa Teresa down there on the Nikoia Peninsula. This is also to work in the island. But this is Tamarindo. Real nice town. Just south of Papagayo Golf. Hope you guys enjoyed it. We'll see you on the next one.Welcome to my Santa Teresa Costa Rica travel vlog. My boyfriend Albion, I just spent 10 days exploring Santa Teresa in the surrounding towns. Here I'm going to share with you the best beaches, restaurants, activities, places we stay there and more. Let's get into it. To get to Santa Teresa, first fly into San Jose, then take a small plane from San Jose to Cabano. The ride over is beautiful and it's a lot of fun. Once you land in Cabano from there to attack see two Santa Teresa. This was the first place we stayed at in Santa Teresa called Buena Onda Bungalos, located on the north end of town. We loved it here. It was only a quick walk to the beach, very clean with everything we needed and the staff were super friendly. We also had a gated area to park our ATV which was cool. I highly recommend staying here. The sun sets don't miss a sunset way in Santa Teresa. Everybody from town goes and every night is so special and different. Give yourself some time tips for the small fishing village of Malpais. It's okay to just sell this Santa Teresa. It's very quiet with the most beautiful colored water. We love exploring this area. We found these sad pools one morning leaving our Airbnb heading to Plya Hermosa. We noticed a few people hanging out in them so we decided to check them out. It's the perfect spot for snorkeling or just relaxing in the ocean. At the right tide the pools were very calm with the waves breaking on the outside of the rocks. We didn't have our snorkel here but we saw bright blue fish and even an eel. Be sure to rent an ATV for your time in Santa Teresa. It's a perfect way to get around. We use ours every single day and we're able to explore so many places with it. We felt very safe and just be sure to always have sunglasses because it does get dusty. This is a must-do activity while you're here. Book the sunset beach tour with Horizonte experience. Michelle the owner is amazing. She'll take you through the village, the jungle on the beach, through a river and even have you galloping by the end. Those are my favorite things we did on our trip. Antrochis aursis really loved us. We did a day trip out to Tortuga Island. Our days started off with the zoom tours picking us up in Santa Teresa. They drove us across to Montezuma. In Montezuma we got a boat and headed towards Tortuga Island. We made some stops, a snorkel, saw some really beautiful fish, we saw a shark. They dropped us off on the island. We had an amazing lunch, played beach volleyball with the locals. We met a lot of cool new people, explored the island and that's in the day. They brought us back and then back all the way to Santa Teresa. The staff were great. I would highly recommend doing the same zoom tours. If you're looking for nightlife in Santa Teresa, so most on a Thursday night is the place to be. Jackalops is a surf shop that plies her most up beach, which is the more beginner friendly beach. We went to surfboards from them and we could also do lessons. I highly recommend going with them. They offer great prices, $15 to the day. You can walk back after and jump it off when you're done with the beach. It's a great little surf shop. Vista de Olas is a hotel up higher on a mountain that overlooks Santa Teresa beach. We went over and got some food and drinks, which covered our feet and used the pool. We hung out a little before sunset and stayed until the sun went down. It was the coolest spot to watch overlooking the whole beach in town. I highly recommend spending some time up here one night. It just gives you a totally new perspective of the sunset. This was the second place we see that in Santa Teresa just down the road from the other. So still on the north side of town. This is called Hotel Raratanga in apartments. We really like this place. It felt super quiet, clean. The people were all really nice at work there. We had our own little kitchen, bedroom, living space that can hang out in the bathroom. We had a place to park our ATV. We had a gate to walk everything. There was a cute little kitty that hung out. We really like this bar. I highly recommend. We left Santa Teresa really one morning and drove past Montezuma to the Cabo Blanco Nature Preserve. We saw some animals and did the mediums as hike. Afterwards we drove back to Montezuma, where we hiked up the Montezuma waterfall. Make sure not to wear regular sneakers. You want to wear teavis or some sort of water shoe. The falls are beautiful and so cool to see in person. We stopped for lunch in town after and explored Montezuma a little bit. It's a totally different vibe than Santa Teresa. The drive from Santa Teresa to Montezuma is so fun, especially on ATV. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. We're going to have a look at the view from the top of the mountain. If you're thinking about going to Costa Rica, specifically Santa Teresa, I highly recommend it. I'm going back as soon as I can. I'm just feeling loved with that entire area. If you have any questions or comments about Santa Teresa, I would love to hear from you below. Thank you so much for watching my travel vlog.Hello, today's video. If you're coming to Costa Rica, please don't do the following things. So please, I thought I'd do this video, so hopefully you watched this before you come down. And these series of don'ts will either save you money, save your time, help you out somewhere else. So here we go, let's get into it. You should definitely rent a car, get out, travel around the country, see some nice things. So please don't rent those tiny normal, silent cars, get a small SUV. And not necessarily because you're going to be going off-road, but the loads of pop holes in this country and when you're parking, you're always parking on a virgin going up. So really you need ground clearance and you need good size tires. There's little tires on the cheapest rental cars that blow out on the slightest thing, slightest little pop hole. And you do not want to be on the side of the road trying to change a tire. So that would be my number one don't. These don't pay for everything in dollars. The currency of the country is the Coln. The name comes from Christopher Coln, which is another name for Christopher Columbus. So everything is based in the Coln, even though they've presented to you in dollars. The big ticket items like your hotel, renting your car will be in dollars. Pretty much everything else, but you can try to play in Coln as because if you pay in dollars, the exchange rate will be in their favour. And it might be massively in their favour. I mean, the exchange rate when I'm doing this video is about 6, 10, 6, 15. Some of the modes that don't get the exchange rate are 500. So you're losing 20% by paying in dollars. So I'd always have Coln as now. Please don't change your money in the airport. It's a complete and utter ripoff. Pretty much. When if you go into any bank, they've all got very similar rates, the normal banks. And that's the best place to change US dollar notes into Coln as. The other alternative is to draw money out on your credit card. I would always select Coln as. So then it comes up on your credit card in Coln as and then whatever your credit card company at home doesn't exchange rate that's generally the point. Don't try to see too much in one trip. When you're planning a trip, you've got a map of Costa Rica and it looks like from one place to the next it's about an inch. It seems that every trip takes four hours here. The roads are not the best. They're sort of windy little country roads and pop holy and then you want to stop off and see things on the way. So travel between one destination and the next always takes longer than you're planning. So if your trip is bum bum bum bum bum you're not really stopping to smell the roads and enjoy the place. I would say spend at least two nights in every destination and if it's one you think you're going to love spending spend three nights and then also you're not under stress to be getting to your destination because Costa Rica roads you just got to take your time and not rush and not speed because around the next bend they're going to be cows on the road or a big old pop hole we need to swerve around. There are so many amazing things to see in this country but maybe just in your first trip down here plan to see a few things and then think why are you going to be coming back in the year because everybody falls in love with it and everybody comes back. Don't be fooled when you're going to restaurants with their menu and their bills. Generally whatever you see on the menu they're going to add 30% sales tax and a 10% tip and that 10% tip by law goes to the service it's not for the restaurant. So whatever you, whatever price you see on the menu you know that there's going to be a 23% added to that when you get the check. If you see it itemized which it has to be by law they'll say 30% sales tax fair enough and then they won't say they'll say tax service tax or something like they'll try to get the word tax into it so you think it's just a tax rather than the government enforce 10% obligatory tip that goes to the staff. So people tend to be there to the amount of the menu comes to them with an extra 20, 23% added on and then they'll give another 20% tip so then your budget goes goes over the top. Leave whatever tip you feel comfortable with. A normal Costa Rica going to a restaurant and then we'll probably leave a few coins or a dollar or two extra and that's what the servers are normally expecting. Don't come without WhatsApp download it onto your phone. Everybody uses WhatsApp as their primary means of communication. But no Costa Rica is ever going to be sending you a text or calling your North American number. If you don't know WhatsApp is what the rest of the world uses apart from North America to communicate and it's a free app. So for example if you're waiting on the side of the road for your driver and he's late which they usually are. If you have his WhatsApp number say hey wait where are you and he says oh I'm 20 minutes away then you can go get a cup of coffee and he knows on his way and you're absolutely fine. If you're relying on emails or whatever he will not be communicating with you and you'll just be standing there on the side of the road. Absolutely it is the number one way of communicating so I really encourage you to download that. Don't buy property on your first trip down here and that might seem strange coming from me but really I think the best way to do it is take your time. People get a little bit of a fever they first come down here because everything is so amazing and so even if your attention is to buy a property down here I just take your time. Most people come down in the high season the first trip absolutely falling in love with it and my recommendation is always just go home think about it plan a trip down here in the lower season where everything's much cheaper the weather's different. Look at it with fresh eyes and the second time you'll come down you'll feel like you're a bit of an expert because you've got connections and you've the people you've found on the first trip and you'll be welcome back and you'll start to feel part of the community. My interest is you find something that's right for you for the long term. The people that buy here end up becoming my neighbours and my friends so I really want everybody to make a very good decision as to where and how much they want to spend and if Costa Rica is really for them. And this one's for me as well as as everybody don't fall in love with a Costa Rican girl. Costa Rican girls are amazing, beautiful, friendly, lovely, hot, passionate, Latina. But they're not the most painful people in the world. I say that would love. There's Joker, the Costa Rican girl walks into hallmark a few days before Valentine's days, says to the guy do you have a card that says when I met you I was just an innocent girl. You taught me everything that I know, you fulfilled me. I want to spend the rest of my life with you and the whole mob goes, guy goes, well yeah actually I do have a card that says exactly that and she says great, give me five of them please. Now it's a bit harsh and I've got good friends that are very happy married to Costa Rica and for many many years and they've got families and everything worked perfectly but all I'd say is just don't brush into things just take your time. Don't pay too much in bribes to get out traffic fines. Now it's illegal to pay bribes, you could get to trouble so take care but every policeman I've ever met ends up asking for one and it seems to be the normal thing to do so just go into this with your eyes open. Generally in Costa Rica you're paying people to either do their job better or faster or do their job worse and so if you get stopped for speeding or not wearing a seatbelt or anything like that this is the way it will go. So they'll come up to you and the guy will be very stern and you've done this wrong, you've done that wrong and that means the fines are going to be $500 or whatever the number is in Colones. We're going to take your car away and you're not going to be able to leave the country until you've gone to court and you're going oh my god this is really terrible, it's really terrible. And then you float out something oh my goodness you know is there any way we can settle this now? I'm doing on the spot fire and he'll go and he'll get his book out and as soon as he starts to actually write the fine out then then it's a point of no return because he has to fill that in if he's got half filled out one but what he tends to do is lick his pen and hold his book like that and then maybe you'll flip over to a blank sheet of paper and to start to write your name down or something and then at that point you know you're in the negotiating cycle and often when you're going through because you're fairly tens you're thinking oh my god that's your founder the only honest cop in in the country but it's all part of negotiation and then he'll say well you know we really shouldn't because by the way the police if they get caught they get to a lot of trouble it's just they never see if you get caught because it's so normal and then he'll say well your fines should be $500 if you give me $200 then we'll move on now any Costa Rica that gets stopped he's paying $10 $5 as a foreigner $20 is a lot but so you just could then go into your charming self-effacing you know really I can't you know I've just spent this and I've only got this much and I need to go and get petrol and then get dinner for my wife who's pregnant and whatever it is and then you just start the negotiation and then your hand is booking and like with his fingers underneath and then you just sort of slot the note into there and then then you give your passport back and everything and wish you on your on your way take a lot of care with that you know it's it's the normal way of what Costa Rica is normally doing a traffic stop and it'll probably give you your best anecdote of your whole trip but just going to the ISO. Don't come to Costa Rica without planning your internet connection I know it sounds horrible you're here to enjoy the beaches and the jungles and things but really having a consistent internet connection is going to make your life so much easier people that come down here and neither rely on hotel Wi-Fi or they're paying by the hour of their internet connection so they only have a connective for a few minutes a day or whatever every interaction you have with your booking or fishing trip or your driver to take you to Mamma Antonio or whatever you're doing you're going to need that constant interaction most North American carriers they'll do a package where you can come and hold a and you're covered in Costa Rica so that's your easiest one second as long as you've got an unlocked phone you can buy a Costa Rica chip probably for $10 you can get a card you slot it into your phone and then you're covered for your your whole period down here so one way or another I really recommend you figure that out before you come down here don't use Google Maps use Waze Waze at E Waze is like an intelligent version of Google Maps that gets feedback in real time from other people on the same road as you at the head of you so for example if there's an accident ahead then it will update your app in real time and calculate a different route for you it's really amazing and even if you're on a back road in the middle of the night in the middle of Costa Rica and also just really trust Waze every time when Waze is telling me to go one way and after 20 years ago no no no I know that the other way is better sure enough if I don't follow Waze something's happened the road blocked or the tree in the road or something like that the back road here are really back roads so you know you might if you're finding a shortcut on the map and Waze is sending you a different way it's almost always for a reason it could be a really rough road I trust Waze that's always the way for me to get to my destination as quick as possible so it's just it just really works very well so please if you find out any of this useful please click below like subscribe and get an alert so you get notified when the next one's coming out and it also gives me a little boost and I know that people are really you know interested in when I see those excellent BPPB we're subscribed tonight gives me an extra little boost and it makes me feel like it's worthwhile to be spending my time sharing my experiences and trying to help you to have a better time during your stay in the industryCosta Rica, nature's ultimate playground. From a job-robbing landscape to one of a kind while life encounters, this wonderland destination seems to have it all. But is it really all it's cracked up to be? Or did it crowd an expensive price to make it an overrated tourist trap? Let's find out. So this behind me is the entrance to what is said to be the best national park in all of Costa Rica. It's 7 a.m. right now. We came early. We're gonna see what we can spot. Costa Rica is home to 5% of all biodiversity on our planet. And here in Manuel Antonio National Park, you can spot 109 different types of mammals and up to 200 bird species. And that's why we're here to see wildlife. I was looking for a monkey and almost tripped over to see what on that. How close this. It's a monkey. It's a monkey. I get some monkey. What a way to start off this day. We started to wonder, was this just beginners luck or is Costa Rica truly this good for wildlife all around? Oh my god. There's deer. There's deer with babies right here. She has babies. Oh, there's some mom with babies coming right onto the... It's cute. This is like bamboo in real life. This is just incredible all the wildlife we've seen. It's just been here for like 45 minutes. There's no zoo. This is an actual national park. This is wild. These are wild animals. We don't even have a guide. These are just the things we've been able to spot by ourselves. Wow. This is to keep the monkeys out. One big downside of a park is that you're not allowed to bring in any food at all. And you're not allowed to bring in any drinks in single-use plastics. So only if you refillable ball you can bring in some water. But they'll happily sell you water at $5 for a small ball of water. And for a small coffin. So it's now about 9.30 in the morning. And you can clearly tell that there are large groups of tourists and visitors coming in. I can see him hanging. I can see his head. I can see him moving. Very slow. It's really slow. This is not slow motion footage. This is just a slow motion. This is just a slow motion. I haven't been able to spot one by myself. There were like three or four groups of people out pointing to one tree. So yeah. Kind of with a giveaway. I love this. I can actually not find one. I can't. It's actually really rare to see a sloth moving. They stay up in that tree for just about a week. And then at the end of the week, they have to, which is Sunday, it's the end of the week. They have to go to the bathroom and they have to come down. That is also when 50% of sloth deaths happen because they either fall from the tree or they're more vulnerable to predators. Okay, so Costa Rica really is good for wildlife. In fact, it's pretty fantastic. Just a few trees down from the first sloth. We spotted a family of sloths. This is the dad. And this, Verbal, is the mom and baby. You can see the baby's head. It's the one on the left. You can just see him looking down. And a few moments later, we were surrounded by about a dozen monkeys. There's literally like ten monkeys around right now. They're walking across the path here. They're jumping through the trees. We're being chased away by the monkeys. Let's get out of here. A couple weeks ago, we met some travelers who had just been in Costa Rica. They had planned to stay for two weeks, but ended up leaving after only four days, because of the crowds and the prices, which made us wonder just how bad would things get as we hit up some of the highlights of Costa Rica. Over these next few days, we're going to find out. For lunch, we drove to a spot of a few kilometers down the road from the National Park. Wow, guys. The views here. This is really something else. That over there is actually my route. I'm going on the National Park. You can see there. We each had a fruit juice. We had some fish. This is lovely procable and a slice of pie with some coffee. It was a delicious meal and it cost us about 70 US dollars. Views included. One thing a lot of people complain about and really dislike about Costa Rica are the prices, especially prices of tours and restaurants and food. A lunch wasn't cheap. It was more European or US prices. We definitely can't afford that every day. Over the next couple of days, we're going to see if we can find some affordable things to do, some affordable tours and some affordable local food. Maybe we're going to have to sell one kidney each? We both have two, so we have plenty of kidneys. I like this. Here's one inside the brick box, this is not called gambling money. Gear Fun Gotta intuitive. Gear Fun Gotta have an incentive. We can be able to enjoy some poor food while out on our left. The big fish truck is a chief port. Because I think you can rent a kayak here on the beach for like 20-ish box. So we have our own kayak. So this is very affordable. So a beautiful little bay. It's incredible. Uda-vida. Uda-vida. There is a small little park here. Little playground. There are lots of people out and about. So obviously we're going to be spending the night inside of our van. Sleeping inside the van. And this part of Costa Rica has a bit of a safety issue. If you look on my overlander there are a bunch of these red little icons along the coast which indicate that people who've tried to spend the night here or park here have had issues. We even read of a guy who was held up at gunpoint. They were trying to rob him. He refused to give up his stuff and he ended up getting shot. So I hope he can find something here around the park. Because it looks like a nice little area. And when he's done, he made it. Food and night. You want to know? Really ended up sleeping. The park here is over there and right down the street here is the police station. That's the police station of the town. We parked up right in front of it. That seemed like the very safest spot you could be. So today we're going to be driving to another highlight of Costa Rica. Known for its action. Action! We are going to go zip lining. This is roughly the route that we took down from Mexico to Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua. And right now we've come to Costa Rica. Yesterday we were at Manuel Antonio and today we're going to drive up the coast. This way to Monteverde National Park. We just parked the car here off the road. There is something very special to be spotted here. And best of all, it's free. I can see one. I can see one over there. I can see you. No. Oh that's a big boy. So we're now at Croc d'Albridge. This river literally has hundreds of crocodiles. It's actually the most polluted river in all of Costa Rica. You can just get right off the highway, stare over bridge into the water, and there's this whole family of crocodiles. I'm very surprised they're not eating that bird over there. It's just chilling right next to a croc and it's like, as I walk through the valley of the shadow of the devil. Now I have to say this is really cool, but I was sort of coming here with the expectation of seeing dozens of crocodiles because that's what it was like in the pictures and in the videos that I had seen. It just goes to show though how crazy it is to have certain expectations because this is so cool. But because of what I saw, mom, I'm like, yeah, but I think cooler if there were more. See you later alligator. We continue driving towards Monteverde National Park, leaving the coast behind. In an attempt to stop Costa Rica from bleeding a stride of all our savings, we opted for a local favorite for lunch. For lunch today, we're going to try something different. Fried chicken is super, super popular in general and central America, and it is probably one of the most affordable meals you can get. Really? How much was it? Well, I'll show you what I have. Mucho tortillas, and then I have about six fairly large pieces of chicken breast. It's actually pretty good. So how much was it? How much do you think it was? Which is $20. It was $3,600 colonis. That is really affordable. No, that's a deal. Local prices. Oh, that's better than key F. I have been wanting to come to planning in Monteverde for years now. Monteverde is the most famous cloud forest in the world. Here, the warm, most wins coming from the Caribbean coast cool off as they gain altitude in the mountains, which creates this pretty much permanent cover of clouds. It looks like something straight out of a Lord of the Rings movie and after months living in the extreme heat of central America in our van, it's can we drove all the way up to? Well, it's probably the top of the mountain here. Now I'm going to do a little stop for some little wildlife watching. Now here at Cafe Colibee, they're really famous because of the big population of sharks. They have a lot of something, but it's not sharks. Oh my god, my goodness, I can see two. I'm really unbelievable. I've never seen hummingbirds this close. So the Colibee Cafe has six different feeders. Just hanging around here in their back garden and you can just come here and watch the hummingbirds right now. They're about a dozen or so, I guess. If you want, you can have a drink here as well, but it's not even mandatory. So nice to be here in the cold after being 35 degrees for a while. Some hot chocolates. A warm cinnamon roll. It's a warm cinnamon roll. Best thing ever. It's a little too big, no? Oh, this is so good. Oh, it feels like we're transferred from summer to like autumn weather and just a blink of four hours. That right there, that's so cool. That's called a Quotty. That's so cool. That hurt. That hurt. It's doing. Anyway, welcome back to the Montet Verde Cloud Forest. Traveling is all about exploring the world, going outside of your comfort zone. And Costa Rica offers plenty of opportunities to do exactly that. Because today. Are you excited Kim? I'm very excited. I'm nervous. You have to control your speed and everything, so not good at those things. So I might die. I might not. It's crazy. Is it good? You're doing me. Good, good. I'm new. Good, I'm going to the center. One, two. All is good, all is super. Yes. Great. The first couple of ziplines were just a warm up for the main event. The Superman zipline. The longest zipline in Latin America. It's a whopping mile long and takes you soaring above the beautiful cloud forest. To do this, they strap you into the zipline in a way that I think is usually reserved for some very particular adult film. Yes. Yes. That's good. Oh my god. Bye bye. Oh my god. This is crazy. That was epic and scary and everything at the same time. Even though not the most exciting thing is still to come. I love it's scared now. I love it's scared not to. This is a free fall of 40 or 50 meters. It's called the mega tarzan swing and a swing from a fine, hopefully cable. Three tarzan, new jane. Tarzan, that's a great. Are you going to scream? I'm going to scream like a little girl. You're not going? No. Okay. You don't want to go over there? No, I want to go over there. I'll think about it. Okay. I'll go over the phone distance. I've never done a free fall before. So this will be the first time actually. Oh my god. Okay. Oh my god. That one down. Yeah. So. So. The whole three flag and dead. Oh my god. Let's do that. Ben Yulis. Is that Manis? And go? And there more? Yeah? Walk up. Here we go. One, two, three, four. Oh my god. Sorry for screaming. Will he scream or will he know? No. I mean, after that jump. I feel like a run through a hole now. That was so scary. Something, something comfort zone. That's amazing. That was pretty far. It sounded like comfort zone. How much did he pay? What's that? For the bar. You earned it. How much did he pay for the store? Some of the doors actually cost $100, $150, which is really, really expensive. I would have never done it for that price. This one is actually $55. And for what you get, I think it's really good price. I'm just going to talk about it. What the heck? I'm so pissed off. I just pulled off the road for a second. There was some parking spots available. One taxi drove by. It's like, oh, this is a taxi stand. And there were four spots I was in one. I was like, okay, I'll leave and Kim was in the back. So we were just about to leave and then another taxi came. And he had a spot. There were still three spots left. But he just, to make a point, he just ran in the back of the van. This guy just did that part. I mean, that's just crazy. I can't see anything on it, fortunately. But can you imagine? I just, just, just to make a point, just, just get out. And I screamed out and like, dude, what the heck, what are you doing? I am fucking crazy in Spanish then. But, and he was like, we are in a soda. We're not in a gano soda. No, no, no. So, guys, the name of a local restaurant, local fruit. It's actually sea traditional breakfast. Of course, the heck, they are called Gaiopinto. Gaiopinto is this rice and beans. She makes like this table, they eat it with everything here. We've got some local cheese here. Fried banana or plantain. Two fried eggs, some toast. Coffee with milk. It's better than I expected. It's just like, they're no rising bean eggs. Not super special. But the flavor is actually really good. The thing is though, this is a tourist now. This is a local eatery. But fries is still quite expensive. Just displayed breakfast costs around $10. And a coffee costs $3.5. Nothing fancy. Basically, these are US diner prices. But we're not in the US. We're in Central America. After breakfast, we went to Monteville National Park for some hiking. But there are a lot of rules here. When you enter, they assign a trail to you to avoid going over capacity on certain spots in the park, I guess. And we have been assigned the best trail in all of the park. The one that takes you over. The famous hanging bridge. Yeah, so excited about it. We're going to be lucky. Wow, this is really something else. This is not the jungle. Like in Manoranto and your this park is a lot for us. It's called Clash Forest because I have an amount. It's about 16,000 meters, but 5,000 feet. It's very Lord of the Ringsy. Massey would like these very cool plants and vines. And everything just looks so magical. I really love this. That's my favorite kind of senior this time. So cool to literally be up in the canopy, in between the trees. Like it's like a 30-foot drop just from here from the start of the bridge. There's no one else here on the bridge right now. Jump, jump. You can feel it wobbling, but you can actually see the trees up close and I like this bridge. Once it was dark, we went on a guided night walk through the Cloud Forest. In Costa Rica, a lot of the locals speak English, which is so rare in Latin America. We really enjoyed having a guide teach us about the Cloud Forest. In Costa Rica, one percent of the forest, it is Cloud Forest. He spotted some really cool critters for us like this bug that is completely covered in moss for camouflage. The name of this friend is mimic moss walking a stick bug. It's a very long name. We saw this tiny frog and a pretty big tarantula. That's an orange-need tarantula. It's hiding in the bright mix to where we were hiking earlier. It's a little creepy. That one in the hole, it is a female. The males probably are walking around the forest looking for something to eat. And we also learned that we probably shouldn't sleep with the windows in the back of the van open anymore. But we've been doing for the last few months to manage the heat. We don't have box screens and just a couple of feet from our van that our guide found this giant scorpion. As the age old saying goes, it's better to be sweaty and to have a scorpion in your bed. So let me share with you the truth that we've discovered about Costa Rica. Is it crowded and touristy? In a lot of places, hell, yes. Is it overpriced? There is no question about it. It is one of the most expensive countries we have visited ever outside of Europe and the US. Probably the most expensive one. Small things like a five dollar water bottle in the park, more expensive food at restaurants after a few days, after a few weeks, those things really start to add up. And I've read that a lot of travelers because of that start feeling like a bit of an ATM here in Costa Rica. A bit taken advantage of I guess because of those super high prices and I do get that. Could you just know that the locals aren't paying these amounts and contrary to a lot of other countries, it's very hard to find that cheap and affordable tier here in Costa Rica. In fact, we haven't managed to find it yet. But despite the prices, despite the crowds, are we going to be leaving after four days? Wow. I still have all my kidneys. I think we're going to be good. We're going to stick around for a couple more weeks.